OracleTuxedo/README.md, before:

Tuxedo on Docker
===============
Sample Docker configurations to facilitate installation, configuration, and environment setup for DevOps users. This project includes  [samples](samples/) for Tuxedo 12.1.3 based on Oracle Linux.

The certification of Tuxedo on Docker does not require the use of any file presented in this repository. Customers and users are welcome to use them as starters, and customize/tweak, or create from scratch new scripts and Dockerfiles.

## How to build and run
This folder contains the information and examples of how to use [Tuxedo](http://oracle.com/tuxedo) with [Docker](https://www.docker.com/).

## To use
1. Into an empty directory:
  1. Download the Tuxedo 12.1.3 Linux 64 bit installer from OTN
  2. Download all the files from this github directory
  3. Optionally download the latest Tuxedo rolling patch from My Oracle Support
2. cd dockerfiles
3. Execute 'bash buildDockerImage.sh'

You should end up with a docker image tagged oracle/tuxedo:version

You can then start the image in a new container with:  `docker run -i -t oracle/tuxedo:version /bin/bash`
which will put you into the container with a bash prompt.  If you want to test the new container, simply execute the `simpapp_runme.sh` in an empty
directory and the script will build and run the Tuxedo simpapp application.


 * Tuxedo Distribution and Documentation
   - For more information on the Tuxedo 12cR2 Distribution, visit [Tuxedo 12.1.3 Installer](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/middleware/tuxedo/downloads/index.html).

   - For more information on the Tuxedo 12cR2 Documentation, visit [Tuxedo 12.1.3 Documentation](http://docs.oracle.com/cd/E53645_01/tuxedo/index.html).


## License
To download and run Tuxedo 12cR2 regardless of inside or outside a Docker container, you must download the binaries from Oracle website and accept the license indicated at that page.

All scripts and files hosted in this project and GitHub [docker/OracleTuxedo](./) repository required to build the Docker images are, unless otherwise noted, released under the Common Development and Distribution License (CDDL) 1.0 and GNU Public License 2.0 licenses.

## Copyright
Copyright (c) 2016-2016 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.

Commit message:

enhance the existing Tuxedo dockerfiles (#455)
1. removed core/samples to tuxedo_full as the samples are dependent on
TSAM which is not installed in the docker
2. removed dockerfiles and samples folders under the original Tuxedo
folder (OracleTuxedo)

OracleTuxedo/README.md, after:

# Tuxedo on Docker

This repository contains Dockerfiles for Oracle Tuxedo products and some samples.

The Dockerfiles for Oracle Tuxedo products can be found in the [`OracleTuxedo`](./) branch of this repository. Here is the description for each folder.
* [Tuxedo Core](./core)          `Tuxedo core including server binaries, client libraries and two samples`


For support and certification information, please consult the documentation for each folder.

## License
To download and run Tuxedo 12cR2 regardless of inside or outside a Docker container, you must download the binaries from Oracle website and accept the license indicated at that page.

All scripts and files hosted in this project and GitHub [docker/OracleTuxedo](./) repository required to build the Docker images are, unless otherwise noted, released under the Common Development and Distribution License (CDDL) 1.0 and GNU Public License 2.0 licenses.

## Copyright
Copyright (c) 2016-2017 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
