OracleCloudInfrastructure/terraform-oci/README.md, before:

# Containerized Terraform for OCI provider

[Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/) is a powerful tool for building, changing,
and versioning infrastructure safely and efficiently. It gives you agility and
fine-grained control over all your infrastructure resources, you can create
configuration files to describe your resources in a human-readable format.
Terraform can manage existing and popular service providers as well as custom
in-house solutions. 

Oracle provides an open source [Terraform provider for Oracle Cloud
Infrastructure](https://github.com/oracle/terraform-provider-oci) which you can
use to manage all your Cloud infrastructure resources (Network, Compute,
Storage, etc).

This image was inspired by https://medium.com/oracledevs/containerized-terraform-for-oci-provider-2deb917783fa

## Building the image

This image has no external dependencies. It can be built using the standard
`docker build` command, as follows:

```
# docker build -t oracle/terraform-oci:2.0.6 .
```


## Running terraform

Create a directory to store your Terraform configuration files and specify that
directory as the source of the `VOLUME` when starting the container:

```
docker run \
  --interactive --tty --rm \
  --volume "$PWD":/data \
  oracle/terraform-oci:2.0.6 "$@"
```

Now you can work with Terraform the same way you are familiar with:

```
sh-4.2# terraform init

Initializing provider plugins…

The following providers do not have any version constraints in configuration,
so the latest version was installed.

To prevent automatic upgrades to new major versions that may contain breaking
changes, it is recommended to add version = “…” constraints to the
corresponding provider blocks in configuration, with the constraint strings
suggested below.

* provider.oci: version = “~> 2.0”

Terraform has been successfully initialized!
```
## Create an alias for terraform

To simplify working with Terraform inside a container, create an alias
(or a shell script) so that you can access Terraform as if it were running
locally on your machine:

```
$ alias terraform-oci="docker run \
   --interactive --tty --rm \
   --volume "$PWD":/data \
   oracle/terraform-oci:2.0.6 terraform"
```
## License

All files required to build this Docker images are, unless otherwise noted, released under [UPL 1.0](https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl/) license.

## Copyright
Copyright (c) 2014-2018 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.

Commit message:

Updating the Dockerfile to install the latest versions by default, but still allow that to be overridden with a --build-arg.
Signed-off-by: Avi Miller <avi.miller@oracle.com>

OracleCloudInfrastructure/terraform-oci/README.md, after:

# Containerized Terraform for OCI provider

[Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/) is a powerful tool for building, changing,
and versioning infrastructure safely and efficiently. It gives you agility and
fine-grained control over all your infrastructure resources, you can create
configuration files to describe your resources in a human-readable format.
Terraform can manage existing and popular service providers as well as custom
in-house solutions. 

Oracle provides an open source [Terraform provider for Oracle Cloud
Infrastructure](https://github.com/oracle/terraform-provider-oci) which you can
use to manage all your Cloud infrastructure resources (Network, Compute,
Storage, etc).

This image was inspired by https://medium.com/oracledevs/containerized-terraform-for-oci-provider-2deb917783fa

## Building the image

This image has no external dependencies. It can be built using the standard
`docker build` command, as follows:

```
# docker build -t oracle/terraform-oci:2.0.6 .
```

### Manually specifying versions

By default, the image will install the latest available version of Terraform
and the Terraform provider for OCI. If you want to install a specific version
of either of these, you can pass a specific `--build-arg` during the build
process of the image.

Here is an example command that uses a specific version of Terraform and the
Provider for OCI:

```
# docker build -t oracle/terraform-oci:2.0.6 \
  --build-arg TERRAFORM_VERSION="-0.11.2-1.el7" \
  --build-arg OCI_PROVIDER_VERSION="-2.0.5-1.el7" \
  .
```

Note that the argument includes the inital hypen seperator. To find out which versions
are available, check the [Oracle Linux 7 Developer 
Channel](http://yum.oracle.com/repo/OracleLinux/OL7/developer/x86_64/index.html)
on the [Oracle Linux Yum Server](http://yum.oracle.com).

## Running terraform

Create a directory to store your Terraform configuration files and specify that
directory as the source of the `VOLUME` when starting the container:

```
docker run \
  --interactive --tty --rm \
  --volume "$PWD":/data \
  oracle/terraform-oci:2.0.6 "$@"
```

Now you can work with Terraform the same way you are familiar with:

```
sh-4.2# terraform init

Initializing provider plugins…

The following providers do not have any version constraints in configuration,
so the latest version was installed.

To prevent automatic upgrades to new major versions that may contain breaking
changes, it is recommended to add version = “…” constraints to the
corresponding provider blocks in configuration, with the constraint strings
suggested below.

* provider.oci: version = “~> 2.0”

Terraform has been successfully initialized!
```
## Create an alias for terraform

To simplify working with Terraform inside a container, create an alias
(or a shell script) so that you can access Terraform as if it were running
locally on your machine:

```
$ alias terraform-oci="docker run \
   --interactive --tty --rm \
   --volume "$PWD":/data \
   oracle/terraform-oci:2.0.6 terraform"
```
## License

All files required to build this Docker images are, unless otherwise noted, released under [UPL 1.0](https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl/) license.

## Copyright
Copyright (c) 2014-2018 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
