OracleUnifiedDirectory/dockerfiles/12.2.1.4.0/README.md, before:

Building an Oracle Unified Directory Image with Dockerfiles and Scripts
=======================================================================

## Contents

1. [Introduction](#1-introduction)
2. [Hardware and Software Requirements](#2-hardware-and-software-requirements)
3. [How to Build the Oracle Java image](#3-how-to-build-the-oracle-java-image)
4. [Building Oracle Unified Directory image](#4-building-oracle-unified-directory-image)

# 1. Introduction

Oracle Unified Directory provides a comprehensive directory solution for robust identity management.

Oracle Unified Directory is an all-in-one directory solution with storage, proxy, synchronization and virtualization capabilities. While unifying the approach, it provides all the services required for high-performance Enterprise and carrier-grade environments. Oracle Unified Directory ensures scalability to billions of entries, ease of installation, elastic deployments, enterprise manageability and effective monitoring.

This project offers dockerfile and scripts to build an Oracle Unified Directory image based on 12cPS4 (12.2.1.4.0) release. Use this image to facilitate installation, configuration, and environment setup for DevOps users. 

This image refers to binaries for Oracle Unified Directory Release 12.2.1.4.0 and it has the capability to create different types of Oracle Unified Directory Instances (Directory Service, Proxy, Replication) on containers targeted for development and testing.

***Image***: `oracle/oud:12.2.1.4.0`

# 2. Hardware and Software Requirements
Oracle Unified Directory image has been tested and is known to run on following hardware and software:

## 2.1 Hardware Requirements

| Hardware  | Size  |
| :-------: | :---: |
| RAM       | 16GB  |
| Disk Space| 200GB+|

## 2.2 Software Requirements

|       | Version                        | Command to verify version |
| :---: | :----------------------------: | :-----------------------: |
| OS    | Oracle Linux 7.3 or higher     | more /etc/oracle-release  |
| Docker| Docker version 18.03 or higher | docker version            |

# 3. How to Build the Oracle Java image

Please refer to [README.md](../../../OracleJava/README.md) under `docker-images/OracleJava` for details on how to build Oracle Java image.

# 4. Building Oracle Unified Directory image

## Clone and download Oracle Unified Directory scripts and binary file

1. Clone the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/oracle/docker-images)
The repository contains dockerfiles and scripts to build images for Oracle products.
2. You must download and save the Oracle Unified Directory 12.2.1.4.0 binary into the cloned/downloaded repository folder at location : `OracleUnifiedDirectory/dockerfiles/12.2.1.4.0/` (see **Checksum** for file name which is inside oud.download).

## Build Oracle Unified Directory image using cloned/downloaded docker-images repository
To assist in building the image, you can use the [`buildDockerImage.sh`](../buildDockerImage.sh) script. See below for instructions and usage.

The `buildDockerImage.sh` script is a utility shell script that takes the version of the image that needs to be built. Expert users are welcome to directly call `docker build` with their prefered set of parameters.

**IMPORTANT**: If you are building the Oracle Unified Directory image, you must first download the Oracle Unified Directory 12.2.1.x binary (`fmw_12.2.1.4.0_oud.jar`) and locate it in the folder, `OracleUnifiedDirectory/dockerfiles/12.2.1.4.0`.

**IMPORTANT**: To build the Oracle Unified Directory image with patches, you need to download and drop the patch zip files (for e.g. `p31400392_122140_Generic.zip`) into the `patches/` folder under the version which is required, for e.g. for 12.2.1.4.0 the folder is `12.2.1.4/patches/`.  Similarly, `OPatch` patches can be kept in the `opatch_patch/` folder (for 12.2.1.4.0 the folder is `12.2.1.4/opatch_patch`). Then run the `buildDockerImage.sh` script:

Note: Copy the **fmw_12.2.1.4.0_oud.jar** under the directory "OracleUnifiedDirectory/dockerfiles/12.2.1.4.0"

    Build script "buildDockerImage.sh" is located at "OracleUnifiedDirectory/dockerfiles"

        $ sh buildDockerImage.sh
        Usage: buildDockerImage.sh -v [version]
        Builds a Docker Image for Oracle Unified Directory

        Parameters:
           -v: version to build. Required.
           Choose : 12.2.1.4.0
           -c: enables Docker image layer cache during build
           -s: skips the MD5 check of packages

# Licensing & Copyright

## License
To download and run Oracle Fusion Middleware products, regardless whether inside or outside a container, you must download the binaries from the Oracle website and accept the license indicated at that page.

All scripts and files hosted in this project and GitHub [docker-images/OracleUnifiedDirectory](./) repository required to build the images are, unless otherwise noted, released under [UPL 1.0](https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl/) license.

## Copyright
Copyright (c) 2020 Oracle and/or its affiliates.
Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0 as shown at https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl

Commit message:

For Dockerfile based README, added a line to mention tag for base image. For Base Image from ORC based README, removed instructions to pull Java image.

OracleUnifiedDirectory/dockerfiles/12.2.1.4.0/README.md, after:

Building an Oracle Unified Directory Image with Dockerfiles and Scripts
=======================================================================

## Contents

1. [Introduction](#1-introduction)
2. [Hardware and Software Requirements](#2-hardware-and-software-requirements)
3. [How to Build the Oracle Java image](#3-how-to-build-the-oracle-java-image)
4. [Building Oracle Unified Directory image](#4-building-oracle-unified-directory-image)

# 1. Introduction

Oracle Unified Directory provides a comprehensive directory solution for robust identity management.

Oracle Unified Directory is an all-in-one directory solution with storage, proxy, synchronization and virtualization capabilities. While unifying the approach, it provides all the services required for high-performance Enterprise and carrier-grade environments. Oracle Unified Directory ensures scalability to billions of entries, ease of installation, elastic deployments, enterprise manageability and effective monitoring.

This project offers dockerfile and scripts to build an Oracle Unified Directory image based on 12cPS4 (12.2.1.4.0) release. Use this image to facilitate installation, configuration, and environment setup for DevOps users. 

This image refers to binaries for Oracle Unified Directory Release 12.2.1.4.0 and it has the capability to create different types of Oracle Unified Directory Instances (Directory Service, Proxy, Replication) on containers targeted for development and testing.

***Image***: `oracle/oud:12.2.1.4.0`

# 2. Hardware and Software Requirements
Oracle Unified Directory image has been tested and is known to run on following hardware and software:

## 2.1 Hardware Requirements

| Hardware  | Size  |
| :-------: | :---: |
| RAM       | 16GB  |
| Disk Space| 200GB+|

## 2.2 Software Requirements

|       | Version                        | Command to verify version |
| :---: | :----------------------------: | :-----------------------: |
| OS    | Oracle Linux 7.3 or higher     | more /etc/oracle-release  |
| Docker| Docker version 18.03 or higher | docker version            |

# 3. How to Build the Oracle Java image

Please refer to [README.md](../../../OracleJava/README.md) under `docker-images/OracleJava` for details on how to build Oracle Java image.

Oracle Unified Directory Dockerfile uses the `oracle/serverjre:8` tag for the Oracle Java image, hence you should use this tag while referring to the Oracle Java image.

# 4. Building Oracle Unified Directory image

## Clone and download Oracle Unified Directory scripts and binary file

1. Clone the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/oracle/docker-images)
The repository contains dockerfiles and scripts to build images for Oracle products.
2. You must download and save the Oracle Unified Directory 12.2.1.4.0 binary into the cloned/downloaded repository folder at location : `OracleUnifiedDirectory/dockerfiles/12.2.1.4.0/` (see **Checksum** for file name which is inside oud.download).

## Build Oracle Unified Directory image using cloned/downloaded docker-images repository
To assist in building the image, you can use the [`buildDockerImage.sh`](../buildDockerImage.sh) script. See below for instructions and usage.

The `buildDockerImage.sh` script is a utility shell script that takes the version of the image that needs to be built. Expert users are welcome to directly call `docker build` with their prefered set of parameters.

**IMPORTANT**: If you are building the Oracle Unified Directory image, you must first download the Oracle Unified Directory 12.2.1.x binary (`fmw_12.2.1.4.0_oud.jar`) and locate it in the folder, `OracleUnifiedDirectory/dockerfiles/12.2.1.4.0`.

**IMPORTANT**: To build the Oracle Unified Directory image with patches, you need to download and drop the patch zip files (for e.g. `p31400392_122140_Generic.zip`) into the `patches/` folder under the version which is required, for e.g. for 12.2.1.4.0 the folder is `12.2.1.4/patches/`.  Similarly, `OPatch` patches can be kept in the `opatch_patch/` folder (for 12.2.1.4.0 the folder is `12.2.1.4/opatch_patch`). Then run the `buildDockerImage.sh` script:

Note: Copy the **fmw_12.2.1.4.0_oud.jar** under the directory "OracleUnifiedDirectory/dockerfiles/12.2.1.4.0"

    Build script "buildDockerImage.sh" is located at "OracleUnifiedDirectory/dockerfiles"

        $ sh buildDockerImage.sh
        Usage: buildDockerImage.sh -v [version]
        Builds a Docker Image for Oracle Unified Directory

        Parameters:
           -v: version to build. Required.
           Choose : 12.2.1.4.0
           -c: enables Docker image layer cache during build
           -s: skips the MD5 check of packages

# Licensing & Copyright

## License
To download and run Oracle Fusion Middleware products, regardless whether inside or outside a container, you must download the binaries from the Oracle website and accept the license indicated at that page.

All scripts and files hosted in this project and GitHub [docker-images/OracleUnifiedDirectory](./) repository required to build the images are, unless otherwise noted, released under [UPL 1.0](https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl/) license.

## Copyright
Copyright (c) 2020, Oracle and/or its affiliates.
Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0 as shown at https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl
