README.md, before:

# Docker Images from Oracle
This repository contains [Dockerfiles](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/) and samples to build [Docker](https://www.docker.com/what-docker) images for Oracle commercial products and [Oracle sponsored open source projects](https://oss.oracle.com).

## Images on GitHub
These images will require you to download any required Oracle commercial software before installation. If you want commercial software downloaded for you, view [Pre-Built Images with Commercial Software](#pre-built-images-with-commercial-software).

### Oracle Commercial Products
 - [Oracle BI](/OracleBI)
 - [Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Tools](/OracleCloudInfrastructure)
 - [Oracle Coherence](/OracleCoherence)
 - [Oracle Database](/OracleDatabase)
 - [Oracle Data Integrator](/OracleDataIntegrator)
 - [Oracle Enterprise Data Quality](/OracleEDQ)
 - [Oracle FMW Infrastructure](/OracleFMWInfrastructure)
 - [Oracle GoldenGate](/OracleGoldenGate)
 - [Oracle HTTP Server](/OracleHTTPServer)
 - [Oracle Instant Client](/OracleInstantClient) (Basic, SDK and SQL*Plus)
 - [Oracle Java](/OracleJava)
 - [Oracle Rest Data Services](OracleRestDataServices) (ORDS)
 - [Oracle SOA Suite](/OracleSOASuite)
 - [Oracle Tuxedo](/OracleTuxedo)
 - [Oracle TSAM Plus](/OracleTuxedo/tsam)
 - [Oracle WebLogic Server](/OracleWebLogic)
 - [Oracle WebCenter Sites](/OracleWebCenterSites)

### Oracle Sponsored Open Source Projects
 - [GlassFish](GlassFish)
 - [MySQL](https://github.com/mysql/mysql-docker)
 - [OpenJDK](/OpenJDK)
 - [Oracle NoSQL Database](/NoSQL)
 - [Oracle Linux](https://github.com/oracle/container-images)

## Pre-Built Images with Commercial Software
These sources will download any Oracle commercial software for you:

 - [Oracle Container Registry](https://container-registry.oracle.com)
 - [Docker Store](https://store.docker.com/search?certification_status=certified&q=oracle&source=verified&type=image)

## Support
For support and certification information, please consult the documentation for each product.

For community support, discussions, and feedback about the provided Dockerfiles, visit the [OTN Community Container Space](https://community.oracle.com/community/server_&_storage_systems/containers)

## Community Contributions
 - [Oracle Forms and Reports](https://github.com/oracle/docker-images/issues/212)

Commit message:

Update README so that issues/bugs are reported on GitHub. (#971)
Signed-off-by: Avi Miller <avi.miller@oracle.com>

README.md, after:

# Docker Images from Oracle
This repository contains [Dockerfiles](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/) and samples to build [Docker](https://www.docker.com/what-docker) images for Oracle commercial products and [Oracle sponsored open source projects](https://oss.oracle.com).

## Images on GitHub
These images will require you to download any required Oracle commercial software before installation. If you want commercial software downloaded for you, view [Pre-Built Images with Commercial Software](#pre-built-images-with-commercial-software).

### Oracle Commercial Products
 - [Oracle BI](/OracleBI)
 - [Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Tools](/OracleCloudInfrastructure)
 - [Oracle Coherence](/OracleCoherence)
 - [Oracle Database](/OracleDatabase)
 - [Oracle Data Integrator](/OracleDataIntegrator)
 - [Oracle Enterprise Data Quality](/OracleEDQ)
 - [Oracle FMW Infrastructure](/OracleFMWInfrastructure)
 - [Oracle GoldenGate](/OracleGoldenGate)
 - [Oracle HTTP Server](/OracleHTTPServer)
 - [Oracle Instant Client](/OracleInstantClient) (Basic, SDK and SQL*Plus)
 - [Oracle Java](/OracleJava)
 - [Oracle Rest Data Services](OracleRestDataServices) (ORDS)
 - [Oracle SOA Suite](/OracleSOASuite)
 - [Oracle Tuxedo](/OracleTuxedo)
 - [Oracle TSAM Plus](/OracleTuxedo/tsam)
 - [Oracle WebLogic Server](/OracleWebLogic)
 - [Oracle WebCenter Sites](/OracleWebCenterSites)

### Oracle Sponsored Open Source Projects
 - [GlassFish](GlassFish)
 - [MySQL](https://github.com/mysql/mysql-docker)
 - [OpenJDK](/OpenJDK)
 - [Oracle NoSQL Database](/NoSQL)
 - [Oracle Linux](https://github.com/oracle/container-images)

## Pre-Built Images with Commercial Software
These sources will download any Oracle commercial software for you:

 - [Oracle Container Registry](https://container-registry.oracle.com)
 - [Docker Store](https://store.docker.com/search?certification_status=certified&q=oracle&source=verified&type=image)

## Support
For support and certification information, please consult the documentation for each product.

For support, bug reporting and feedback about the provided Dockerfiles, please open an [issue on GitHub](https://github.com/oracle/docker-images/issues).

If you need general support with running containers on Oracle Linux, please visit the [OTN Community Container Space](https://community.oracle.com/community/server_&_storage_systems/containers).

## Community Contributions
 - [Oracle Forms and Reports](https://github.com/oracle/docker-images/issues/212)
