OracleWebLogic/samples/12213-domain-home-in-image/README.md, before:

Example Image with a  WebLogic Server Domain
=============================================
This Dockerfile extends the Oracle WebLogic image by creating a sample WebLogic Server  12.2.1.3 domain and cluster into a Docker image.

A domain is created inside the image and utility scripts are copied into the image, enabling users to start an Administration Server and a Managed Server, each running in separate containers. 

**Note:** In this sample, the WebLogic Servers are configured with a blank listen address; when running JTA transactions, you must use a DNS server to configure the listen addresses to use DNS names.

## Providing the Administration Server user name and password


**During Docker Build:** The user name and password must be supplied in the `domain_security.properties` file.  The property file is located in the directory `docker-images/OracleWebLogic/samples/12213-domain-home-in-image/properties/docker_build` in the HOST. This property file gets copied into the image directory `/u01/oracle/properties`.

**During Docker Run:** The user name and password must be supplied in a `security.properties` file.  The property file is located in a `docker-images/OracleWebLogic/samples/12213-domain-home-in-image/properties/docker_run` directory in the HOST. On the Docker run command line, the `-v` option maps the property file into the image directory `/u01/oracle/properties`.


The security property files enable the scripts to configure the correct authentication for the WebLogic Administration Server and Managed Servers. The format of the `security.properties` and `domain_security.properties` files are key=value pairs, for example:

	username=myadminusername
	password=myadminpassword

**Note:** Oracle recommends that the `domain_security.properties` and `security.properties` files be deleted or secured after the container and the WebLogic Server are started so that the user name and password are not inadvertently exposed.

## How to Build and Run
At build time, the `domain.properties` file is used to pass in the Docker arguments and configuration parameters for the WebLogic domain.


**During Docker Build:** The domain configuration parameters must be supplied in the `domain.properties` file.  This file is located in the directory `properties/docker_build` in the HOST. This property file gets copied into the image directory `/u01/oracle/properties`.


The domain property file enables you to customize the parameters to configure the WebLogic domain. The format of the `domain.properties` are key=value pairs, for example:

	ADMIN_NAME=admin-server
	ADMIN_HOST=wlsadmin
	MANAGED_SERVER_NAME_BASE=managed-server
	CONFIGURED_MANAGED_SERVER_COUNT=2
	CLUSTER_NAME=cluster-1
	DEBUG_FLAG=true
	PRODUCTION_MODE_ENABLED=true
	CLUSTER_TYPE=DYNAMIC
	CLUSTER_NAME=cluster1

**NOTE:** Before invoking the build make sure you have built `oracle/weblogic:12.2.1.3-developer`.


Under the directory `docker-images/OracleWebLogic/samples/12213-domain-home-in-image/container_scripts` find the script `setEnv.sh`. This script extracts the following Docker arguments and passes them as a `--build-arg` to the Dockerfile.


* Domain Name:              `DOMAIN_NAME`             (default: `base_domain`)  
* SSL Enabled:              `SSL_ENABLED`             (default: `false`)
* Admin Server Port:        `ADMIN_PORT`              (default: `7001`)          
* Admin Server SSL Port:    `ADMIN_SERVER_SSL_PORT`   (default: `7002`)          
* Managed Server Port:      `MANAGED_SERVER_PORT`     (default: `8001`)          
* Managed Server SSL Port:  `MANAGED_SERVER_SSL_PORT` (default: `8002`)          
* Debug Port:               `DEBUG_PORT`              (default: `8453`)
* Database Port:            `DB_PORT`                 (default: `1527`)
* Admin Server Name:        `ADMIN_NAME`              (default: `admin-server`)
* Admin Server Host:        `ADMIN_HOST`              (default: `wlsadmin`)
* Cluster Name:             `CLUSTER_NAME`            (default: `cluster1`)

**NOTE:** The `DOMAIN_HOME` will be persisted in the image directory `/u01/oracle/user-projects/domains/$DOMAIN_NAME`.

To build this sample, run:

 	$ . container-scripts/setEnv.sh ./properties/docker-build/domain.properties
 	$ docker build --force-rm=true --no-cache=true $BUILD_ARG -t 12213-domain-home-in-image .

**NOTE:** The docker build command makes use of the `--no-cache` option to ensure that each build will create a new domain and not pickup anything from the Docker cache unexpectedly.  To enable SSL for each WebLogic Server instance in the domain, set SSL_ENABLED=true in the ./properties/docker-build/domain.properties file.

**During Docker Run:** of the Administration and Managed Servers, the user name and password need to be passed in as well as some optional parameters. The property file is located in a `docker-images/OracleWebLogic/samples/12213-domain-home-in-image/properties/docker_run` in the HOST. On the Docker run command line, add the `-v` option which maps the property file into the image directory `/u01/oracle/properties`.


To start the containerized Administration Server, run:

	$ docker run -d --name wlsadmin --hostname wlsadmin -p 7001:7001 \
          -v <HOST DIRECTORY TO PROPERTIES FILE>/properties/docker-run:/u01/oracle/properties \
          12213-domain-home-in-image

If both the JAVA_OPTIONS environment variable and the JAVA_OPTIONS in the docker-run/security.properties file are configured, the latter gets appended to the former. If SSL is enabled, pass "-e JAVA_OPTIONS=-Dweblogic.security.SSL.ignoreHostnameVerification=true" to the "docker run ..." command that starts a managed server.  This is necessary because the Demo identity certificate gets generated with a host name different from the admin server host when the domain is created.

To start a containerized Managed Server (MS1) to self-register with the Administration Server above, run:

	$ docker run -d --name MS1 --link wlsadmin:wlsadmin -p 8001:8001 \
          -v <HOST DIRECTORY TO PROPERTIES FILE>/properties/docker-run:/u01/oracle/properties \
          -e MANAGED_SERV_NAME=managed-server1 12213-domain-home-in-image startManagedServer.sh

To start a second Managed Server (MS2), run:

	$ docker run -d --name MS2 --link wlsadmin:wlsadmin -p 8002:8001 \
          -v <HOST DIRECTORY TO PROPERTIES FILE>/properties/docker-run:/u01/oracle/properties \
          -e MANAGED_SERV_NAME=managed-server2 12213-domain-home-in-image startManagedServer.sh

The above scenario from this sample will give you a WebLogic domain with a cluster set up on a single host environment.

You may create more containerized Managed Servers by calling the `docker` command above

# Copyright
Copyright (c) 2014, 2020, Oracle and/or its affiliates.

Commit message:

Clarification on the ignore host name verification property

OracleWebLogic/samples/12213-domain-home-in-image/README.md, after:

Example Image with a  WebLogic Server Domain
=============================================
This Dockerfile extends the Oracle WebLogic image by creating a sample WebLogic Server  12.2.1.3 domain and cluster into a Docker image.

A domain is created inside the image and utility scripts are copied into the image, enabling users to start an Administration Server and a Managed Server, each running in separate containers. 

**Note:** In this sample, the WebLogic Servers are configured with a blank listen address; when running JTA transactions, you must use a DNS server to configure the listen addresses to use DNS names.

## Providing the Administration Server user name and password


**During Docker Build:** The user name and password must be supplied in the `domain_security.properties` file.  The property file is located in the directory `docker-images/OracleWebLogic/samples/12213-domain-home-in-image/properties/docker_build` in the HOST. This property file gets copied into the image directory `/u01/oracle/properties`.

**During Docker Run:** The user name and password must be supplied in a `security.properties` file.  The property file is located in a `docker-images/OracleWebLogic/samples/12213-domain-home-in-image/properties/docker_run` directory in the HOST. On the Docker run command line, the `-v` option maps the property file into the image directory `/u01/oracle/properties`.


The security property files enable the scripts to configure the correct authentication for the WebLogic Administration Server and Managed Servers. The format of the `security.properties` and `domain_security.properties` files are key=value pairs, for example:

	username=myadminusername
	password=myadminpassword

**Note:** Oracle recommends that the `domain_security.properties` and `security.properties` files be deleted or secured after the container and the WebLogic Server are started so that the user name and password are not inadvertently exposed.

## How to Build and Run
At build time, the `domain.properties` file is used to pass in the Docker arguments and configuration parameters for the WebLogic domain.


**During Docker Build:** The domain configuration parameters must be supplied in the `domain.properties` file.  This file is located in the directory `properties/docker_build` in the HOST. This property file gets copied into the image directory `/u01/oracle/properties`.


The domain property file enables you to customize the parameters to configure the WebLogic domain. The format of the `domain.properties` are key=value pairs, for example:

	ADMIN_NAME=admin-server
	ADMIN_HOST=wlsadmin
	MANAGED_SERVER_NAME_BASE=managed-server
	CONFIGURED_MANAGED_SERVER_COUNT=2
	CLUSTER_NAME=cluster-1
	DEBUG_FLAG=true
	PRODUCTION_MODE_ENABLED=true
	CLUSTER_TYPE=DYNAMIC
	CLUSTER_NAME=cluster1

**NOTE:** Before invoking the build make sure you have built `oracle/weblogic:12.2.1.3-developer`.


Under the directory `docker-images/OracleWebLogic/samples/12213-domain-home-in-image/container_scripts` find the script `setEnv.sh`. This script extracts the following Docker arguments and passes them as a `--build-arg` to the Dockerfile.


* Domain Name:              `DOMAIN_NAME`             (default: `base_domain`)  
* SSL Enabled:              `SSL_ENABLED`             (default: `false`)
* Admin Server Port:        `ADMIN_PORT`              (default: `7001`)          
* Admin Server SSL Port:    `ADMIN_SERVER_SSL_PORT`   (default: `7002`)          
* Managed Server Port:      `MANAGED_SERVER_PORT`     (default: `8001`)          
* Managed Server SSL Port:  `MANAGED_SERVER_SSL_PORT` (default: `8002`)          
* Debug Port:               `DEBUG_PORT`              (default: `8453`)
* Database Port:            `DB_PORT`                 (default: `1527`)
* Admin Server Name:        `ADMIN_NAME`              (default: `admin-server`)
* Admin Server Host:        `ADMIN_HOST`              (default: `wlsadmin`)
* Cluster Name:             `CLUSTER_NAME`            (default: `cluster1`)

**NOTE:** The `DOMAIN_HOME` will be persisted in the image directory `/u01/oracle/user-projects/domains/$DOMAIN_NAME`.

To build this sample, run:

 	$ . container-scripts/setEnv.sh ./properties/docker-build/domain.properties
 	$ docker build --force-rm=true --no-cache=true $BUILD_ARG -t 12213-domain-home-in-image .

**NOTE:** The docker build command makes use of the `--no-cache` option to ensure that each build will create a new domain and not pickup anything from the Docker cache unexpectedly.  To enable SSL for each WebLogic Server instance in the domain, set SSL_ENABLED=true in the ./properties/docker-build/domain.properties file.

**During Docker Run:** of the Administration and Managed Servers, the user name and password need to be passed in as well as some optional parameters. The property file is located in a `docker-images/OracleWebLogic/samples/12213-domain-home-in-image/properties/docker_run` in the HOST. On the Docker run command line, add the `-v` option which maps the property file into the image directory `/u01/oracle/properties`.


To start the containerized Administration Server, run:

	$ docker run -d --name wlsadmin --hostname wlsadmin -p 7001:7001 \
          -v <HOST DIRECTORY TO PROPERTIES FILE>/properties/docker-run:/u01/oracle/properties \
          12213-domain-home-in-image

When SSL is enabled and at the time the managed server is coming up it connects to the admin server (over SSL) to download the domain configuration. Because the demo identity certificate gets generated when the domain is created, the host name of the environment is used as the host name for the certificate. To bypass host name verification and allow a successful SSL connection the system property -Dweblogic.security.SSL.ignoreHostnameVerification=true must be set in the "docker run ..." command which starts the managed server. Note that if both the JAVA_OPTIONS environment variable and the JAVA_OPTIONS in the docker-run/security.properties file are configured, the latter gets appended to the former.

To start a containerized Managed Server (MS1) to self-register with the Administration Server above, run:

	$ docker run -d --name MS1 --link wlsadmin:wlsadmin -p 8001:8001 \
          -v <HOST DIRECTORY TO PROPERTIES FILE>/properties/docker-run:/u01/oracle/properties \
          -e MANAGED_SERV_NAME=managed-server1 12213-domain-home-in-image startManagedServer.sh

To start a second Managed Server (MS2), run:

	$ docker run -d --name MS2 --link wlsadmin:wlsadmin -p 8002:8001 \
          -v <HOST DIRECTORY TO PROPERTIES FILE>/properties/docker-run:/u01/oracle/properties \
          -e MANAGED_SERV_NAME=managed-server2 12213-domain-home-in-image startManagedServer.sh

The above scenario from this sample will give you a WebLogic domain with a cluster set up on a single host environment.

You may create more containerized Managed Servers by calling the `docker` command above

# Copyright
Copyright (c) 2014, 2020, Oracle and/or its affiliates.
