OracleCoherence/README.md, before:

# Oracle Coherence 12c Docker Image

This is a Dockerfile for [Oracle Coherence 12c](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/middleware/coherence/overview/index.html). The purpose of this Docker container is to facilitate the setup of development and integration testing environments for developers.

This image uses the Standalone Distribution of Coherence 12c.

**IMPORTANT**: Oracle **does not support Coherence on Docker**, including but not limited to Development, Integration, and Production environments.

## Oracle Linux Base Image
For more information and documentation, read the [Docker Images from Oracle Linux](https://registry.hub.docker.com/_/oraclelinux/) page.

### Standalone Distribution
Fore more information on the Coherence 12c Standalone Distribution, visit [Coherence 12.1.3 Documentation](http://docs.oracle.com/middleware/1213/coherence/index.html).

## How to Build

Follow this procedure:

1. Checkout the GitHub weblogic-docker repository

	$ git checkout git@github.com:oracle/docker-images.git

2. Go to the **OracleCoherence** folder

	$ cd OracleCoherence 

3. [Download](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jdk8-downloads-2133151.html) and drop the Oracle JDK 8u25 RPM 64bit file **jdk-8u25-linux-x64.rpm** in this folder

	Linux x64	135.6 MB  	jdk-8u25-linux-x64.rpm

4. [Download](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/middleware/coherence/downloads/index.html) and drop the Coherence 12c Standalone Distribution file **fmw_12.1.3.0.0_coherence_Disk1_1of1.zip** in this folder

	Coherence Stand-Alone Install  (87 MB) - fmw_12.1.3.0.0_coherence_Disk1_1of1.zip

5. Execute the build script as **root**

        $ sudo sh buildDockerImage.sh

## Booting up Oracle Coherence 12c on Docker

Along with the Dockerfile, two scripts are also provided to help you run Cache Servers, and the Coherence Console (without local storage).

Start a CacheServer:
	$ sudo sh dockCacheServer.sh [fullpath dir w/ tangosol-coherence-override.xml and cache configs]

Start Coherence Console:
	$ sudo sh dockCoherenceConsole.sh [fullpath dir w/ tangosol-coherence-override.xml and cache configs]

## Issues
If you find any issues with this Docker project, please report through the [GitHub Issues page](https://github.com/oracle/docker-images/issues).

## License
To download and run Coherence 12c Distribution regardless of inside or outside a Docker container, and regardless of which distribution, you must agree and accept the [OTN Standard License Terms](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/licenses/standard-license-152015.html).

To download and run Oracle JDK regardless of inside or outside a Docker container, you must agree and accept the [Oracle Binary Code License Agreement for Java SE](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/terms/license/index.html).

All scripts and files hosted in this project on GitHub [docker-images/OracleCoherence](https://github.com/oracle/docker-images/OracleCoherence) repository required to build the Docker images are, unless otherwise noted, released under the Common Development and Distribution License (CDDL) 1.0 and GNU Public License 2.0 licenses, except for the files listed above with their specific licenses.

Commit message:

Dockerfiles now reference the base image oracle/jdk:8 for better reuse and size optimization

OracleCoherence/README.md, after:

# Oracle Coherence 12c Docker Image

This is a Dockerfile for [Oracle Coherence 12c](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/middleware/coherence/overview/index.html). The purpose of this Docker container is to facilitate the setup of development and integration testing environments for developers.

This image uses the Standalone Distribution of Coherence 12c.

**IMPORTANT**: Oracle **does not support Coherence on Docker**, including but not limited to Development, Integration, and Production environments.

## Oracle Linux Base Image
For more information and documentation, read the [Docker Images from Oracle Linux](https://registry.hub.docker.com/_/oraclelinux/) page.

### Standalone Distribution
Fore more information on the Coherence 12c Standalone Distribution, visit [Coherence 12.1.3 Documentation](http://docs.oracle.com/middleware/1213/coherence/index.html).

## Building Oracle JDK (Server JRE) base image
Before you can build these WebLogic images, you must download the Oracle Server JRE binary and drop in folder `OracleJDK/java-8` and build that image.

        $ cd OracleJDK/java-8
        $ sh build.sh

## How to Build

Follow this procedure:

1. Checkout the GitHub weblogic-docker repository

	$ git checkout git@github.com:oracle/docker-images.git

2. Go to the **OracleCoherence** folder

	$ cd OracleCoherence 

3. [Download](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jdk8-downloads-2133151.html) and drop the Oracle JDK 8u25 RPM 64bit file **jdk-8u25-linux-x64.rpm** in this folder

	Linux x64	135.6 MB  	jdk-8u25-linux-x64.rpm

4. [Download](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/middleware/coherence/downloads/index.html) and drop the Coherence 12c Standalone Distribution file **fmw_12.1.3.0.0_coherence_Disk1_1of1.zip** in this folder

	Coherence Stand-Alone Install  (87 MB) - fmw_12.1.3.0.0_coherence_Disk1_1of1.zip

5. Execute the build script as **root**

        $ sudo sh buildDockerImage.sh

## Booting up Oracle Coherence 12c on Docker

Along with the Dockerfile, two scripts are also provided to help you run Cache Servers, and the Coherence Console (without local storage).

Start a CacheServer:
	$ sudo sh dockCacheServer.sh [fullpath dir w/ tangosol-coherence-override.xml and cache configs]

Start Coherence Console:
	$ sudo sh dockCoherenceConsole.sh [fullpath dir w/ tangosol-coherence-override.xml and cache configs]

## Issues
If you find any issues with this Docker project, please report through the [GitHub Issues page](https://github.com/oracle/docker-images/issues).

## License
To download and run Coherence 12c Distribution regardless of inside or outside a Docker container, and regardless of which distribution, you must agree and accept the [OTN Standard License Terms](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/licenses/standard-license-152015.html).

To download and run Oracle JDK regardless of inside or outside a Docker container, you must agree and accept the [Oracle Binary Code License Agreement for Java SE](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/terms/license/index.html).

All scripts and files hosted in this project on GitHub [docker-images/OracleCoherence](https://github.com/oracle/docker-images/OracleCoherence) repository required to build the Docker images are, unless otherwise noted, released under the Common Development and Distribution License (CDDL) 1.0 and GNU Public License 2.0 licenses, except for the files listed above with their specific licenses.
