OracleHTTPServer/samples/1221-ohs-domain/README.md, before:

Example of Oracle HTTP Server with Weblogic Proxy Plugin
===============
This Dockerfile extends the Oracle HTTP Install image by creating a sample OHSdomain and configures Oracle WebLogic Server Proxy Plug-In  in order to load balance a WebLogic cluster, from inside a container in the same network as the WLS Cluster.

## How to build image and run container
First make sure you have the Oracle HTTP install image (oracle/ohs:12.2.1-sa) ready by running following command as root user
$ docker images

1.To build the domain image using this sample Dockerfile, run as root user:

    $ docker build --force-rm=true --no-cache=true --rm=true -t sampleohs:12.2.1 --build-arg NM_PASSWORD=welcome1 .

2.To start the Container with above image , run as root user :

    $ docker run -d --env-file ./env.list -p 7777:7777  sampleohs:12.2.1 configureWLSProxyPlugin.sh



## Configuring the Oracle WebLogic Server Proxy Plug-In with Oracle HTTP Server
Oracle WebLogic Server Proxy Plug-In (mod_wl_ohs)is used for proxying requests from Oracle HTTP Server to Oracle WebLogic Server.
The Oracle WebLogic Server Proxy Plug-In is included in the Oracle HTTP Server 12c (12.2.1) installation.
Refer https://docs.oracle.com/middleware/1221/webtier/develop-plugin/oracle.htm#PLGWL553

To configure OHS server with WLS Proxy Plugin, a sample file mod_wl_ohs.conf.sample has been provided under **samples/1221-ohs-domain/container-scripts** folder.
The values for WEBLOGIC_HOST, WEBLOGIC_PORT and WEBLOGIC_CLUSTER will be used from values provided by user during docker run via the env.list

### Example with WLS Docker Container

##### Assume you have :

1. WLS Container with Admin Servers running on 7001 port and console accessible via URL
   - http://myhost:7001/console

2. Two WLS Containers with Managed Servers running on 9001 and 9002 ports (inside same weblogic cluster).
   Sample application is deployed on the cluster and  accessible via URLs
   - http://myhost:9001/sample
   - http://myhost:9002/sample

##### To configure Oracle WebLogic Server Proxy Plug-In inside OHS container

1.Edit the env.list file and provide values

        WEBLOGIC_HOST=myhost
        WEBLOGIC_PORT=7001
        WEBLOGIC_CLUSTER=myhost:9001,myhost:9002

2. As part of docker run command provide the env.file

        $ docker run -d --env-file ./env.list -p 7777:7777  sampleohs:12.2.1 configureWLSProxyPlugin.sh

   The **configureWLSProxyPlugin.sh** script will
   - Start the Node Manager and OHS server
   - Edit the mod_wl_ohs.conf.sample with right directives (based on values passed via env.list)
   - Copy the mod_wl_ohs.conf file under INSTANCE home
   - Restart OHS server

3. Now you will be able to access the URLS via the OHS Listen Port 7777
    - http://myhost:7777/console
    - http://myhost:7777/sample1
    - http://myhost:7777/sample2

# Copyright
Copyright (c) 2014-2016 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.

Commit message:

Enhancement for OHS readme(s). (#115)
* Enhancement for OHS Docker Solution. User can now configure WLS proxy Plugin without havign to login to container and by passing values during docker run

* Modified README(s) for typos

* Revert back to Original README as in master

* Enhancing OHS README(s).

* OHS Enhancement - Including sample env.list file

OracleHTTPServer/samples/1221-ohs-domain/README.md, after:

Example of Oracle HTTP Server with Weblogic Proxy Plugin
===============
This Dockerfile extends the Oracle HTTP Install image by creating a sample OHSdomain and configures Oracle WebLogic Server Proxy Plug-In  in order to load balance a WebLogic cluster, from inside a container in the same network as the Weblogic Cluster.

## How to build image and run container
First make sure you have the Oracle HTTP install image (oracle/ohs:12.2.1-sa) ready by running following command as root user
$ docker images

1.To build the domain image using this sample Dockerfile, run command:

    $ docker build --force-rm=true --no-cache=true --rm=true -t sampleohs:12.2.1 --build-arg NM_PASSWORD=welcome1 .

2.To start the Container with above image , run command :

    $ docker run -d --env-file ./env.list -p 7777:7777  sampleohs:12.2.1 configureWLSProxyPlugin.sh

 ######Note : env.list file should have valid values of WEBLOGIC_HOST, WEBLOGIC_PORT and WEBLOGIC_CLUSTER from existing containers running WebLogic servers.

## Configuring the Oracle WebLogic Server Proxy Plug-In with Oracle HTTP Server
Oracle WebLogic Server Proxy Plug-In (mod_wl_ohs)is used for proxying requests from Oracle HTTP Server to Oracle WebLogic Server.
The Oracle WebLogic Server Proxy Plug-In is included in the Oracle HTTP Server 12c (12.2.1) installation.
Refer https://docs.oracle.com/middleware/1221/webtier/develop-plugin/oracle.htm#PLGWL553

To configure OHS server with WLS Proxy Plugin, a sample file mod_wl_ohs.conf.sample has been provided under **samples/1221-ohs-domain/container-scripts** folder.
The values for WEBLOGIC_HOST, WEBLOGIC_PORT and WEBLOGIC_CLUSTER will be used from values provided by user during docker run via the env.list

### Example with WLS Docker Container

##### Assume you have :

1. WLS Container with Admin Servers running on 7001 port and console accessible via URL
   - http://myhost:7001/console

2. Two WLS Containers with Managed Servers running on 9001 and 9002 ports (inside same weblogic cluster).
   Assume some sample application is deployed on the each managed server and are accessible via URLs
   - http://myhost:9001/sample1
   - http://myhost:9002/sample2

##### To configure Oracle WebLogic Server Proxy Plug-In inside OHS container

1.Edit the env.list file and provide values

        WEBLOGIC_HOST=myhost
        WEBLOGIC_PORT=7001
        WEBLOGIC_CLUSTER=myhost:9001,myhost:9002

2. As part of docker run command provide the env.file

        $ docker run -d --env-file ./env.list -p 7777:7777  sampleohs:12.2.1 configureWLSProxyPlugin.sh

   The **configureWLSProxyPlugin.sh** script will
   - Start the Node Manager and OHS server
   - Edit the mod_wl_ohs.conf.sample with right directives (based on values passed via env.list)
   - Copy the mod_wl_ohs.conf file under INSTANCE home
   - Restart OHS server

3. Now you will be able to access all the URLS via the OHS Listen Port 7777
    - http://myhost:7777/console
    - http://myhost:7777/sample1
    - http://myhost:7777/sample2

# Copyright
Copyright (c) 2016-2017 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
