OracleDatabase/SingleInstance/FAQ.md, before:

# FAQ: containers and Oracle Database

## Can I use setup or startup scripts with the Oracle Database image pulled from the Oracle Container Registry or Docker Hub?

Unfortunately, no.

Unlike the other pre-built images published by Oracle on both the [Oracle Container Registry](https://container-registry.oracle.com) and [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/search?q=oracle&type=image&image_filter=store), the Oracle Database 12c R2 Standard Edition 2 and Enterprise Edition images are not based on any of the Dockerfiles contained in this repository. If you require the runtime functionality documented in this repository, you will need to build an image from the appropriate Dockerfile.

You can review the documentation for the published [Oracle Database 12c R2 Standard Edition 2](https://container-registry.oracle.com/pls/apex/f?p=113:4:115514266578664::NO:4:P4_REPOSITORY,AI_REPOSITORY,AI_REPOSITORY_NAME,P4_REPOSITORY_NAME,P4_EULA_ID,P4_BUSINESS_AREA_ID:8,8,Oracle%20Database%20Standard%20Edition%202,Oracle%20Database%20Standard%20Edition%202,1,0&cs=3M7OZKUYUdXrhRcqDYvjcNMWxeKHvx6UsXuvffUQ_Jzxp3L23ABb0HfUj6WwrUFwCIOcQQJi9fvA5cNYNtaZTkw) and [Oracle Database 12c R2 Enterprise Edition](https://container-registry.oracle.com/pls/apex/f?p=113:4:115514266578664::NO:4:P4_REPOSITORY,AI_REPOSITORY,AI_REPOSITORY_NAME,P4_REPOSITORY_NAME,P4_EULA_ID,P4_BUSINESS_AREA_ID:9,9,Oracle%20Database%20Enterprise%20Edition,Oracle%20Database%20Enterprise%20Edition,1,0&cs=3lBoxWZ5InuJuWk8u1uRtc6CDKy3bKfdwUFF4uxS8sl3_E5PEGVWIZxntjcUezVRaePRKf3M8vTVdZifwndd37g) images on the Oracle Container Registry. Reviewing the documentation does not require an Oracle Single Sign-on account.

## How do I change the timezone of my container

As of Docker 17.06-ce, Docker does not yet provide a way to pass down the `TZ` Unix environment variable from the host to the container. Because of that all containers run in the UTC timezone. If you would like to have your database run in a different timezone you can pass on the `TZ` environment variable within the `docker run` command via the `-e` option. An example would be: `docker run ... -e TZ="Europe/Vienna" oracle/database:12.2.0.1-ee`. Another option would be to specify two read-only volume mounts: `docker run ... -v /etc/timezone:/etc/timezone:ro -v /etc/localtime:/etc/localtime:ro oracle/database:12.2.0.1-ee`. This will synchronize the timezone of the the container with that of the Docker host.

## checkSpace.sh: ERROR - There is not enough space available in the container

This error is thrown when there is no sufficient space available within the container to unzip the install binaries and run the installation of the Oracle database. The container runs the `df` Unix command, meaning that even if you think there should be enough space, there certainly isn't within the container.  

Please make sure that you have enough space available. If you use a storage diver such as `overlay2`, make sure that the output of `docker info` shows a `Base Device Size:` that is bigger than the required space. If not, please change the Base Device Size via the `--storage-opt dm.basesize=` option for the Docker daemon, see [this thread on Docker forums](https://forums.docker.com/t/increase-container-volume-disk-size/1652/4) for more information on that. **Note: You will have to delete all images afterwards to make sure that they new setting is picked up!**

## Error: The container doesn't have enough memory allocated. A database XE container needs at least 1 GB of shared memory (/dev/shm)

The default size for `/dev/shm` is only 64 KB. In order to increase it you have to pass on the `--shm-size` option to the `docker run` command. For example: `docker run ... --shm-size=1g oracle/database:11.2.0.2-xe`

## Image build: unzip error: invalid compressed data to inflate

CRC errors by the Unix unzip command during image build can be caused by a lack of sufficient memory for your container. On macOS X it has been proven that running Docker with only 2GB of RAM will cause this error. Increasing the RAM for Docker to 4GB remedies the situation.

## "Cannot create directory" error when using volumes

This is a Unix filesystem permission issue. Docker by default will map the `uid` inside the container to the outside world. The `uid` for the `oracle` user inside the container is `54321` and therefore all files are created with this `uid`. If you happen to have your volume pointed at a location outside there container where this `uid` doesn't have any permissions for, the container can't write to it and therefore the database files creation fails. There are several remedies for this situation:

* Use named volumes
* Change the ownership of your folder to `54321`
* Change the permissions of your folder so that the `uid 54321` has write permissions

If you are running _rootless containers_ (in particular with the Podman container runtime) you also need to take in account the `uid` remapping from `/etc/subuid`. Podman users can use `podman unshare` command to join the user namespace and set permissions. E.g.:

```shell
podman unshare chown 54321:54321 ~/data/my_db
```

Last but not least, if SELinux is enabled, the mapped folder should be properly labeled. If you encounter SELinux permission issues, you can add the `:Z` flag to the bind mounts.

## ORA-00600: internal error code, arguments: [pesldl03_MMap: errno 1 errmsg Operation not permitted], [], [], [], [], [], [], [], [], [], [], []

This error happens if you try to use native compilation for PL/SQL but haven't assigned `exec` rights to `/dev/shm`.
For example, the below would raise the error in such case:

```sql
alter session set plsql_code_type='NATIVE';

create or replace procedure test as
begin
   null;
end;
/
```

Docker, by default, doesn't assign `exec` rights to `/dev/shm` which is where the native compiled code is stored and executed.
As you don't have execution rights to it, however, you get the error `Operation not permitted`.

Run the container with `-v /dev/shm --tmpfs /dev/shm:rw,exec,size=<yoursize>` instead, the important part being the `exec` in `--tmpfs /dev/shm:rw,exec,size=<yoursize>`.
Also make sure you assign an appropriate size as the default Docker uses is only 64MB. Assigning 1GB or  more is recommended.

## ORA-12637: Packet receive failed

When initially connecting to your 19c (or higher) database the client may appear to hang and timeout after a few minutes with: `ORA-12637: Packet receive failed`

Oracle Net 19c will attempt to [automatically detect support for Out Of Band breaks](https://www.oracle.com/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=dblatest&id=GUID-554C0311-68FB-4628-AC8D-C22D8ADDE995) and enable or disable the feature. Some network stacks do not correctly handle this and problems have been seen on _docker-engine-19.03.1.ol-1.0.0.el7_. You may explicitly disable this feature by setting `DISABLE_OOB=ON` in the client's _sqlnet.ora_ file. By default Oracle Instant Client for Linux will use _/<instant_client_path>/network/admin/sqlnet.ora_, _$TNS_ADMIN/sqlnet.ora_ or _~/.sqlnet.ora_. For example you could use

```shell
echo "DISABLE_OOB=ON" >> ~/.sqlnet.ora
```

For more information configuring _sqlnet.ora_ file see [Database Net Services Reference](https://www.oracle.com/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=dblatest&id=GUID-2041545B-58D4-48DC-986F-DCC9D0DEC642), [Instant Client Installation for Linux](https://www.oracle.com/database/technologies/instant-client/linux-x86-64-downloads.html), [What is DISABLE_OOB (Out Of Band Break)? (Doc ID 373475.1)](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?id=373475.1) and issue #1352

## ORA-01157: cannot identify/lock data file

This error occurs when the database cannot find a data file (used for tablespaces) that was previously present. This is most likely because the data file has been located outside the volume in a previous container and was hence not persisted. Ensure that when you add tablespaces and/or data files that they are located within the volume location, i.e. $ORACLE_BASE/oradata/$ORACLE_SID, (e.g. `/opt/oracle/oradata/XE`).

Commit message:

fix: update Database FAQ to reflect the lack of support for M1 silicon
Resolves #1926.

Signed-off-by: Avi Miller <avi.miller@oracle.com>

OracleDatabase/SingleInstance/FAQ.md, after:

# FAQ: containers and Oracle Database

## Can I use setup or startup scripts with the Oracle Database image pulled from the Oracle Container Registry or Docker Hub?

Unfortunately, no.

Unlike the other pre-built images published by Oracle on both the [Oracle Container Registry](https://container-registry.oracle.com) and [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/search?q=oracle&type=image&image_filter=store), the Oracle Database 12c R2 Standard Edition 2 and Enterprise Edition images are not based on any of the Dockerfiles contained in this repository. If you require the runtime functionality documented in this repository, you will need to build an image from the appropriate Dockerfile.

You can review the documentation for the published [Oracle Database 12c R2 Standard Edition 2](https://container-registry.oracle.com/pls/apex/f?p=113:4:115514266578664::NO:4:P4_REPOSITORY,AI_REPOSITORY,AI_REPOSITORY_NAME,P4_REPOSITORY_NAME,P4_EULA_ID,P4_BUSINESS_AREA_ID:8,8,Oracle%20Database%20Standard%20Edition%202,Oracle%20Database%20Standard%20Edition%202,1,0&cs=3M7OZKUYUdXrhRcqDYvjcNMWxeKHvx6UsXuvffUQ_Jzxp3L23ABb0HfUj6WwrUFwCIOcQQJi9fvA5cNYNtaZTkw) and [Oracle Database 12c R2 Enterprise Edition](https://container-registry.oracle.com/pls/apex/f?p=113:4:115514266578664::NO:4:P4_REPOSITORY,AI_REPOSITORY,AI_REPOSITORY_NAME,P4_REPOSITORY_NAME,P4_EULA_ID,P4_BUSINESS_AREA_ID:9,9,Oracle%20Database%20Enterprise%20Edition,Oracle%20Database%20Enterprise%20Edition,1,0&cs=3lBoxWZ5InuJuWk8u1uRtc6CDKy3bKfdwUFF4uxS8sl3_E5PEGVWIZxntjcUezVRaePRKf3M8vTVdZifwndd37g) images on the Oracle Container Registry. Reviewing the documentation does not require an Oracle Single Sign-on account.

## How do I change the timezone of my container

As of Docker 17.06-ce, Docker does not yet provide a way to pass down the `TZ` Unix environment variable from the host to the container. Because of that all containers run in the UTC timezone. If you would like to have your database run in a different timezone you can pass on the `TZ` environment variable within the `docker run` command via the `-e` option. An example would be: `docker run ... -e TZ="Europe/Vienna" oracle/database:12.2.0.1-ee`. Another option would be to specify two read-only volume mounts: `docker run ... -v /etc/timezone:/etc/timezone:ro -v /etc/localtime:/etc/localtime:ro oracle/database:12.2.0.1-ee`. This will synchronize the timezone of the the container with that of the Docker host.

## Can I run Oracle Database containers on Apple M1 (Arm) devices?

Oracle Database does not support the Arm architecture and will not run on Apple M1 silicon. You will see errors during the build process:

```plain
error: `sed: can't read /etc/security/limits.d/oracle-database-preinstall-18c.conf: No such file or directory`
```

This is caused by the Oracle Linux base image which does work on Arm not being able to install the Oracle Database preinstall requirements
which are not available for that architecture.

## checkSpace.sh: ERROR - There is not enough space available in the container

This error is thrown when there is no sufficient space available within the container to unzip the install binaries and run the installation of the Oracle database. The container runs the `df` Unix command, meaning that even if you think there should be enough space, there certainly isn't within the container.

Please make sure that you have enough space available. If you use a storage diver such as `overlay2`, make sure that the output of `docker info` shows a `Base Device Size:` that is bigger than the required space. If not, please change the Base Device Size via the `--storage-opt dm.basesize=` option for the Docker daemon, see [this thread on Docker forums](https://forums.docker.com/t/increase-container-volume-disk-size/1652/4) for more information on that. **Note: You will have to delete all images afterwards to make sure that they new setting is picked up!**

## Error: The container doesn't have enough memory allocated. A database XE container needs at least 1 GB of shared memory (/dev/shm)

The default size for `/dev/shm` is only 64 KB. In order to increase it you have to pass on the `--shm-size` option to the `docker run` command. For example: `docker run ... --shm-size=1g oracle/database:11.2.0.2-xe`

## Image build: unzip error: invalid compressed data to inflate

CRC errors by the Unix unzip command during image build can be caused by a lack of sufficient memory for your container. On macOS X it has been proven that running Docker with only 2GB of RAM will cause this error. Increasing the RAM for Docker to 4GB remedies the situation.

## "Cannot create directory" error when using volumes

This is a Unix filesystem permission issue. Docker by default will map the `uid` inside the container to the outside world. The `uid` for the `oracle` user inside the container is `54321` and therefore all files are created with this `uid`. If you happen to have your volume pointed at a location outside there container where this `uid` doesn't have any permissions for, the container can't write to it and therefore the database files creation fails. There are several remedies for this situation:

* Use named volumes
* Change the ownership of your folder to `54321`
* Change the permissions of your folder so that the `uid 54321` has write permissions

If you are running _rootless containers_ (in particular with the Podman container runtime) you also need to take in account the `uid` remapping from `/etc/subuid`. Podman users can use `podman unshare` command to join the user namespace and set permissions. E.g.:

```shell
podman unshare chown 54321:54321 ~/data/my_db
```

Last but not least, if SELinux is enabled, the mapped folder should be properly labeled. If you encounter SELinux permission issues, you can add the `:Z` flag to the bind mounts.

## ORA-00600: internal error code, arguments: [pesldl03_MMap: errno 1 errmsg Operation not permitted], [], [], [], [], [], [], [], [], [], [], []

This error happens if you try to use native compilation for PL/SQL but haven't assigned `exec` rights to `/dev/shm`.
For example, the below would raise the error in such case:

```sql
alter session set plsql_code_type='NATIVE';

create or replace procedure test as
begin
   null;
end;
/
```

Docker, by default, doesn't assign `exec` rights to `/dev/shm` which is where the native compiled code is stored and executed.
As you don't have execution rights to it, however, you get the error `Operation not permitted`.

Run the container with `-v /dev/shm --tmpfs /dev/shm:rw,exec,size=<yoursize>` instead, the important part being the `exec` in `--tmpfs /dev/shm:rw,exec,size=<yoursize>`.
Also make sure you assign an appropriate size as the default Docker uses is only 64MB. Assigning 1GB or  more is recommended.

## ORA-12637: Packet receive failed

When initially connecting to your 19c (or higher) database the client may appear to hang and timeout after a few minutes with: `ORA-12637: Packet receive failed`

Oracle Net 19c will attempt to [automatically detect support for Out Of Band breaks](https://www.oracle.com/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=dblatest&id=GUID-554C0311-68FB-4628-AC8D-C22D8ADDE995) and enable or disable the feature. Some network stacks do not correctly handle this and problems have been seen on _docker-engine-19.03.1.ol-1.0.0.el7_. You may explicitly disable this feature by setting `DISABLE_OOB=ON` in the client's _sqlnet.ora_ file. By default Oracle Instant Client for Linux will use _/<instant_client_path>/network/admin/sqlnet.ora_, _$TNS_ADMIN/sqlnet.ora_ or _~/.sqlnet.ora_. For example you could use

```shell
echo "DISABLE_OOB=ON" >> ~/.sqlnet.ora
```

For more information configuring _sqlnet.ora_ file see [Database Net Services Reference](https://www.oracle.com/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=dblatest&id=GUID-2041545B-58D4-48DC-986F-DCC9D0DEC642), [Instant Client Installation for Linux](https://www.oracle.com/database/technologies/instant-client/linux-x86-64-downloads.html), [What is DISABLE_OOB (Out Of Band Break)? (Doc ID 373475.1)](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?id=373475.1) and issue #1352

## ORA-01157: cannot identify/lock data file

This error occurs when the database cannot find a data file (used for tablespaces) that was previously present. This is most likely because the data file has been located outside the volume in a previous container and was hence not persisted. Ensure that when you add tablespaces and/or data files that they are located within the volume location, i.e. $ORACLE_BASE/oradata/$ORACLE_SID, (e.g. `/opt/oracle/oradata/XE`).
