OracleDatabase/samples/customdb/README.md, before:

Example of Image for creating custom database
=============================================
This Dockerfile extends the Oracle Database image by creating a custom database.

This example drops the provided database and creates a new one with a different name.
This example is provided because a lot of people have their own naming conventions and
would like to use them rather than having a predefined database name.

# How to build and run
First make sure you have built **oracle/database:12.1.0.2-ee**. Now, to build this sample, run:

        docker build \
        --build-arg DB_PWD=<Original DB SYS password> \
        --build-arg DB_PWD_NEW=<New DB password> \
        --build-arg SID=<Database SID> \
        --build-arg PDB=<PDB name> \
        -t example/customdb .

Following parameters are passed on:
* DB_PWD: The password of the originally created database (the one used for building the base image)
* DB_PWD_NEW: The new password that should be used (remains unchanged by default)
* SID: The new database SID that should be used (i.e. CDB name)
* PDB: The new PDB name that should be used

To start the containerized Oracle Database, run:

        docker run --name customdb -p 1521:1521 example/customdb

After the container is up and running you can connect to the new database:

        sql system/<your new db password>@//localhost:1521/<your new SID/PDB name>

The above scenario from this sample will give you a new custom database within the Oracle Database Docker image.

# Copyright
Copyright (c) 2014-2016 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.

Commit message:

Change customdb example to reflect new build files

OracleDatabase/samples/customdb/README.md, after:

Example of creating a custom database
=============================================
Once you have built your image you can create a database with a custom name by passing on two environment variables.

# How to start the container
First make sure you have built **oracle/database:12.1.0.2-ee**. Now start the container as follow:

	docker run --name customdb \
	-p 1521:1521 -p 5500:5500 \
	-e ORACLE_SID=<your SID> \
	-e ORACLE_PDB=<your PDB name> \
	oracle/database:12.1.0.2-ee

Following parameters are passed on:
* ORACLE_SID: The Oracle SID and container database name
* ORACLE_PDB: The Oracle PDB name

After the container is up and running you can connect to the new database.
Remember that the database uses an automatically generated password for the admin accounts.
If you want to change the password refer to [Changing the admin accounts passwords](../README.md):

	sql system/<your new db password>@//localhost:1521/<your new SID/PDB name>

The above scenario from this sample will give you a new custom database within the Oracle Database Docker image.

# Copyright
Copyright (c) 2014-2016 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
