The GraalVM CE Dockerfile is licensed under the Universal Permissive License (UPL), Version 1 (https://opensource.org/licenses/UPL).  This license applies to the Dockerfile only, and not to any resulting Docker Image.
 
Copyright (c) 2018 Oracle and/or its affiliates.

The Universal Permissive License (UPL), Version 1.0

Subject to the condition set forth below, permission is hereby granted to any person obtaining a copy of this software, associate documentation and/or data (collectively the "Software"), free of charge and under any and all copyright rights in the Software, and any and all patent rights owned or freely licensable by each licensor hereunder covering either (i) the unmodified Software as contributed to or provided by such licensor, or (ii) the Larger Works (as defined below), to deal in both

(a) the Software, and 

(b) any piece of software and/or hardware listed in the lrgrwrks.txt file if one is included with the Software (each a “Larger Work” to which the Software is contributed by such licensors), 

without restriction, including without limitation the rights to copy, create derivative works of, display, perform, and distribute the Software and make, use, sell, offer for sale, import, export, have made, and have sold the Software and the Larger Work(s), and to sublicense the foregoing rights on either these or other terms.

This license is subject to the following condition:

The above copyright notice and either this complete permission notice or at a minimum a reference to the UPL must be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE. 

**********************************************
    
The GraalVM CE Docker Image that is generated by the GraalVM CE Dockerfile contains an exact image of GraalVM Community Edition 20.  The file contained in the Docker Image are licensed under various open source terms as described herein and in the GraalVM CE Docker Image itself.  

The GraalVM CE Docker image uses [Oracle Linux](https://hub.docker.com/_/oraclelinux/) as its base image. See [Oracle Linux End-User License Agreement](https://oss.oracle.com/ol7/EULA).

GraalVM CE 20 consists of multiple modules.  The GraalVM software as a whole, as well as the JVMCI and VisualVM modules, are released under version 2 of the GNU General Public License with the “Classpath” Exception.  See https://github.com/oracle/graal/blob/master/LICENSE.  The Ruby, R and Python language components are licensed under separate terms. See https://github.com/oracle/graal/blob/master/README.md.  

Copyright (c) 2015, 2018, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.

As with all Docker images, these likely also contain other software which may be under other licenses (such as Bash, etc from the base distribution, along with any direct or indirect dependencies of the primary software being contained).

As for any pre-built image usage, it is the image user's responsibility to ensure that any use of this image complies with any relevant licenses for all software contained within.
