OracleTuxedo/art_workbench_tm/README.md, before:

# Introduction
This folder contains the information and examples of how to use [Tuxedo ART Workbench and Test Manager](http://docs.oracle.com/cd/E72452_01/artwb/docs1222/index.html, http://docs.oracle.com/cd/E72452_01/arttm/docs1222/index.html) with [Docker](https://www.docker.com/).

## Contents
It is based on the Oracle Tuxedo image.

##Prerequisite
1. Use btrfs with docker:
   With big image size, it's better to use btrfs with docker, please follow the link below to set Docker using btrfs.
   https://docs.docker.com/engine/userguide/storagedriver/btrfs-driver/#configure-btrfs-on-sles


## To use
Pre-installation:
1. Download the binaries and copy them to `pwd`/bin
   1. Download all the files from this GitHub repository
   2. Download the binary of ART Workbench and Test Manager
   3. Download Eclipse
   4. Optionally download Tuxedo, Tuxedo ART Workbench and Tuxedo ART Test Manager patches
   
Installation:
Before you run buildDockerImage.sh, if proxy is needed to access network, you need to set environment variables at first: http_proxy, https_proxy, ftp_proxy, no_proxy
     ./buildDockerImage.sh -v 12.2.2   
Note, before you run buildDockerImage.sh, if your Tuxedo ART was other than 12.2.2, you need change above command according to version.

You should end up with a docker image tagged oracle/tuxedoartwkbtm:<version>, version is Tuxedo ART version number you may modify in buildDockerImage.sh.

Commit message:

Updated dockerfiles according to the comments of PR495
1. Updated Dockerfiles, init.sh and README.md according to the comments.
2. Deleted the unnecessary templates.
3. For the comment, "This USER directive is not necessary as you're
already root", we tried to delete the changing user to root, but failed
to install softwares using yum install XXX, it says it's not root. The
reason might be that the USER has been changed to ORACLE in the base
image oracle/tuxedo:12.2.2. So we did not delete the directive.

OracleTuxedo/art_workbench_tm/README.md, after:

Tuxedo Application Rehosting Workbench and Test manager on Docker
===============
# Introduction
This folder contains the information of how to use [Tuxedo ART Workbench and Test Manager](http://docs.oracle.com/cd/E72452_01/artwb/docs1222/index.html, http://docs.oracle.com/cd/E72452_01/arttm/docs1222/index.html) with [Docker](https://www.docker.com/).

## Contents
This folder contains dockerfile based on the Oracle Tuxedo image, in which it has installation of Eclipse, Tuxedo Application Rehosting Workbench and Test manager.

##Prerequisite
1. Use btrfs with docker:
   With big image size, it is better to use btrfs with docker, please follow the link below to set Docker using btrfs.
   https://docs.docker.com/engine/userguide/storagedriver/btrfs-driver/#configure-btrfs-on-sles


How to build and run
Pre-installation:
1. Download the binaries and copy them to `pwd`/bin
   1. Download all the files from this GitHub repository
   2. Download the binary of ART Workbench and Test Manager
   3. Download Eclipse
   4. Optionally download Tuxedo, Tuxedo ART Workbench and Tuxedo ART Test Manager patches

## To use
Before you run buildDockerImage.sh, if proxy is needed to access network, you need to set environment variables at first: http_proxy, https_proxy, ftp_proxy, no_proxy
     ./buildDockerImage.sh -v 12.2.2
Note, before you run buildDockerImage.sh, if your Tuxedo ART was other than 12.2.2, you need change above command according to version.

You should end up with a docker image tagged oracle/tuxedoartwkbtm:<version>, version is Tuxedo ART version number you may modify in buildDockerImage.sh.
