OracleWebLogic/samples/12213-patch-opatch-update/README.md, before:

Example of Image with WLS Domain
================================
This Dockerfile extends the Oracle WebLogic install image by updating OPatch and applying a patch. Before applaying the WebLogic 12.2.1.3 October PSU PATCH 12.2.1.3.181016WLSPSU Opatch needs to be updated with PATCH 28186730: OPATCH 13.9.4.0.0 FOR FMW/WLS 12.2.1.3.
		
**Notes:** Historically, OPatch was updated by unzipping and replacing ORACLE_HOME/OPatch directory. For versions greater than or equal to 13.6, it now uses the OUI installation tooling. This ensures that the installer both executes the file updates and logs the components and file changes to the OUI meta-data. A pure unzip install means the OUI tooling is not aware of these changes, which has on occasions led to upgrade related issues.

## How to build 
First make sure you have built **oracle/weblogic:12.2.1.3-developer**.

Then download file [p28186730_139400_Generic.zip](http://support.oracle.com) and place it in the same directory as this README.
Then download file [p27117282_122130_Generic.zip](http://support.oracle.com) and place it in the same directory as this README.

To build, run:

        $ docker build -t oracle/weblogic:12213-opatch-update .

## Verify that the Patch has been applied correctly
Run a container from the image

        $ docker run --name verify_patch -it oracle/weblogic:12213-opatch-update /bin/bash

cd OPatch and run:

        ./opatch version
        ./opatch lspatches 

You will see the OPatch version being 13.9.4.0.0 and the one-off patch 27117282 applied applied

## Run Single Server Domain
The WebLogic Server install image (patched in this sample) allows you to run a container with a single WebLogic Server domain. This makes it extremely simple to deploy applications and any resource the application might need. The steps bellow describe how to run the single server domain container.

### Providing the Administration Server user name and password
The user name and password must be supplied in a `domain.properties` file located in a HOST directory that you will map at Docker runtime with the `-v` option to the image directory `/u01/oracle/properties`. The properties file enables the scripts to configure the correct authentication for the WebLogic Administration Server.

The format of the `domain.properties` file is key=value pair:

        username=myadminusername
        password=myadminpassword

**Note**: Oracle recommends that the `domain.properties` file be deleted or secured after the container and the WebLogic Server are started so that the user name and password are not inadvertently exposed.

### Start the container
Start a container from the image created in step 1.
You can override the default values of the following parameters during runtime with the `-e` option:

      * `ADMIN_NAME`                  (default: `AdminServer`)
      * `ADMIN_LISTEN_PORT`           (default: `7001`)
      * `DOMAIN_NAME`                 (default: `base_domain`)
      * `DOMAIN_HOME`                 (default: `/u01/oracle/user_projects/domains/base_domain`)
      * `ADMINISTRATION_PORT_ENABLED` (default: `true`)
      * `ADMINISTRATION_PORT`         (default: `9002`)

**NOTE**: For security, the Administration port 9002 is enabled by default. If you would like to disable the Administration port, set `ADMINISTRTATION_PORT_ENABLED` to false. If you intend to run these images in production, then you must change the Production Mode to `production`. To set the `DOMAIN_NAME`, you must set both `DOMAIN_NAME` and `DOMAIN_HOME`.

        $docker run -d -p 7001:7001 -p 9002:9002  -v `HOST PATH where the domain.properties file is`:/u01/oracle/properties -e ADMINISTRATION_PORT_ENABLED=true -e DOMAIN_HOME=/u01/oracle/user_projects/domains/abc_domain -e DOMAIN_NAME=abc_domain oracle/weblogic:12213-opatch-update 

Run the WLS Administration Console:

        $ docker inspect --format '{{.NetworkSettings.IPAddress}}' <container-name>

In your browser, enter `https://xxx.xx.x.x:9002/console`. Your browser will request that you accept the Security Exception. To avoid the Security Exception, you must update the WebLogic Server SSL configuration with a custom identity certificate.

##  Samples for WebLogic multi server domains and cluster
To give users an idea of how to create a WebLogic domain and cluster from a custom Dockerfile which extends the WebLogic Server install image, we provide a few samples for 12c versions of the developer distribution. For an example, look at the 12213-domain sample.

# Copyright
Copyright (c) 2018 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.

Commit message:

add WIT note (#2437)
* add WIT note

* incorporate edit from Monica

OracleWebLogic/samples/12213-patch-opatch-update/README.md, after:

Example of Image with WLS Domain
================================
This Dockerfile extends the Oracle WebLogic install image by updating OPatch and applying a patch. Before applying the WebLogic 12.2.1.3 October PSU PATCH 12.2.1.3.181016WLSPSU, Opatch needs to be updated with PATCH 28186730: OPATCH 13.9.4.0.0 FOR FMW/WLS 12.2.1.3.

Historically, OPatch was updated by unzipping and replacing the ORACLE_HOME/OPatch directory. For versions greater than or equal to 13.6, it now uses the OUI installation tooling. This ensures that the installer both executes the file updates and logs the components and file changes to the OUI metadata. A pure unzip install means the OUI tooling is not aware of these changes, which has on occasion led to upgrade related issues.

**NOTE**: Oracle strongly recommends using the [WebLogic Image Tool](https://oracle.github.io/weblogic-image-tool/userguide/tools/create-image/) (WIT) with the `--recommendedPatches` option, which automatically downloads and applies all the required PSUs, bundle patches, and one-off patches to your 12.2.1.3, 12.2.1.4, and 14.1.1 images and updates OPatch. Note that the WebLogic CPU images in OCR already have these patches applied.

## How to build
First make sure you have built **oracle/weblogic:12.2.1.3-developer**.

Then download file [p28186730_139400_Generic.zip](http://support.oracle.com) and place it in the same directory as this README.
Then download file [p27117282_122130_Generic.zip](http://support.oracle.com) and place it in the same directory as this README.

To build, run:

        $ docker build -t oracle/weblogic:12213-opatch-update .

## Verify that the Patch has been applied correctly
Run a container from the image

        $ docker run --name verify_patch -it oracle/weblogic:12213-opatch-update /bin/bash

cd OPatch and run:

        ./opatch version
        ./opatch lspatches

You will see the OPatch version being 13.9.4.0.0 and the one-off patch 27117282 applied applied

## Run Single Server Domain
The WebLogic Server install image (patched in this sample) allows you to run a container with a single WebLogic Server domain. This makes it extremely simple to deploy applications and any resource the application might need. The steps bellow describe how to run the single server domain container.

### Providing the Administration Server user name and password
The user name and password must be supplied in a `domain.properties` file located in a HOST directory that you will map at Docker runtime with the `-v` option to the image directory `/u01/oracle/properties`. The properties file enables the scripts to configure the correct authentication for the WebLogic Administration Server.

The format of the `domain.properties` file is key=value pair:

        username=myadminusername
        password=myadminpassword

**Note**: Oracle recommends that the `domain.properties` file be deleted or secured after the container and the WebLogic Server are started so that the user name and password are not inadvertently exposed.

### Start the container
Start a container from the image created in step 1.
You can override the default values of the following parameters during runtime with the `-e` option:

      * `ADMIN_NAME`                  (default: `AdminServer`)
      * `ADMIN_LISTEN_PORT`           (default: `7001`)
      * `DOMAIN_NAME`                 (default: `base_domain`)
      * `DOMAIN_HOME`                 (default: `/u01/oracle/user_projects/domains/base_domain`)
      * `ADMINISTRATION_PORT_ENABLED` (default: `true`)
      * `ADMINISTRATION_PORT`         (default: `9002`)

**NOTE**: For security, the Administration port 9002 is enabled by default. If you would like to disable the Administration port, set `ADMINISTRTATION_PORT_ENABLED` to false. If you intend to run these images in production, then you must change the Production Mode to `production`. To set the `DOMAIN_NAME`, you must set both `DOMAIN_NAME` and `DOMAIN_HOME`.

        $docker run -d -p 7001:7001 -p 9002:9002  -v `HOST PATH where the domain.properties file is`:/u01/oracle/properties -e ADMINISTRATION_PORT_ENABLED=true -e DOMAIN_HOME=/u01/oracle/user_projects/domains/abc_domain -e DOMAIN_NAME=abc_domain oracle/weblogic:12213-opatch-update

Run the WLS Administration Console:

        $ docker inspect --format '{{.NetworkSettings.IPAddress}}' <container-name>

In your browser, enter `https://xxx.xx.x.x:9002/console`. Your browser will request that you accept the Security Exception. To avoid the Security Exception, you must update the WebLogic Server SSL configuration with a custom identity certificate.

##  Samples for WebLogic multi server domains and cluster
To give users an idea of how to create a WebLogic domain and cluster from a custom Dockerfile which extends the WebLogic Server install image, we provide a few samples for 12c versions of the developer distribution. For an example, look at the 12213-domain sample.

# Copyright
Copyright (c) 2018 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
