OracleOpenJDK/README.md, before:

Oracle Java OpenJDK on Docker
=====
This repository contains sample Docker configurations to facilitate installation and environment setup for DevOps users. This project includes Dockerfiles for Oracle OpenJDK based on Oracle Linux.

## Building the Oracle Java OpenJDK base image
Navigate to the folder containing the Dockerfile and run docker build, tagging the image with the version number:

e.g. for OpenJDK 15 run
```
$ cd ../OracleOpenJDK/15
$ docker build -t oracle/openjdk:15 .
```

This command is already scripted in build.sh so you can alternatively run:
```
$ bash build.sh
```

## License
The OpenJDK compressed archive used by this Dockerfile is available under the [GNU General Public License, version2, with the Classpath Exception](https://openjdk.java.net/legal/gplv2+ce.html), from the [Oracle OpenJDK website](https://jdk.java.net).
Oracle Linux is licensed under the [Oracle Linux End-User License Agreement](https://oss.oracle.com/ol/EULA).

All scripts and files hosted in this project and GitHub [`docker/OracleOpenJDK`](./) repository, required to build the Docker images are, unless otherwise noted, released under the [UPL 1.0](https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl/) license.

Commit message:

Added the option of building with OL 8 as well as the default OL 7 (#1817)
* Updated dockerfiles and builds to offer the choice between OL 7 slim (default) and OL 8 slim

Signed-off-by: Aurelio Garcia-Ribeyro <aurelio.garciaribeyro@oracle.com>

OracleOpenJDK/README.md, after:

Oracle Java OpenJDK on Docker
=====
This repository contains sample Docker configurations to facilitate installation and environment setup for DevOps users. This project includes Dockerfiles for Oracle OpenJDK based on Oracle Linux.

## Building the Oracle Java OpenJDK base image
Navigate to the folder containing the Dockerfile and run docker build, tagging the image with the version number:

e.g. for OpenJDK 15 run
```
$ cd ../OracleOpenJDK/15
$ docker build -t oracle/openjdk:15 .
```

This command is already scripted in build.sh so you can alternatively run:
```
$ bash build.sh
```

### Parent image OS version

The Oracle Java images for OpenJDK 15 and uses `oraclelinux:7-slim` as the default parent image.

It is possible to use `oraclelinux:8-slim` as the parent image by using  `Dockerfile.8-slim` rather than `Dockerfile` with docker build.

e.g. to build OpenJDK 15 with Oracle Linux 8 rather than the default Oracle Linux 7 run

```
$ cd ../OracleOpenJDK/15
$ docker build --file Dockerfile.8-slim --tag oracle/openjdk:15-oraclelinux8 .
```

The build script on `build.sh` can be used to build with either Oracle Linux 7 or Oracle Linux 8. To build on Oracle Linux 8 pass `8-slim` to the script: 

```
$ bash build.sh 8-slim
```

In the build script, and on the example above, the image on Oracle Linux 8 has been tagged with `15-oraclelinux8`. 

The Dockerfile for creating OpenJDK 16 images, planned to be released in March 2021, will use Oracle Linux 8, rather than Oracle Linux 7 by default.

## License
The OpenJDK compressed archive used by this Dockerfile is available under the [GNU General Public License, version2, with the Classpath Exception](https://openjdk.java.net/legal/gplv2+ce.html), from the [Oracle OpenJDK website](https://jdk.java.net).
Oracle Linux is licensed under the [Oracle Linux End-User License Agreement](https://oss.oracle.com/ol/EULA).

All scripts and files hosted in this project and GitHub [`docker/OracleOpenJDK`](./) repository, required to build the Docker images are, unless otherwise noted, released under the [UPL 1.0](https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl/) license.
