OracleDatabase/SingleInstance/samples/README.md, before:

Examples of how to extend the Oracle Database Docker Image
================================
# 1830-docker-compose
Provides a Docker Compose example file for Oracle Database 18c 18.3.0

# 12102-docker-compose
Provides a Docker Compose example file for Oracle Database 12.1.0.2

# 12201-docker-compose
Provides a Docker Compose example file for Oracle Database 12.2.0.1

# applypatch
Example of how to apply a custom patch or PSU to the image

# customdb
Example of how to create a database with user defined names.

# customscripts
Example of how to execute custom scripts on database setup/startup.

# plugpdb
Example of how to plug an existing PDB into a CDB inside the container.

# prebuiltdb
Example of how to create a prebuilt database inside a container.

# startersetcontainer
Example of how to add starter set data to the database inside the container.
Useful for example to setup test environments.

# unplugpdb
Example of how to unplug a PDB from a container's CDB.

# Copyright
Copyright (c) 2014-2016 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.

Commit message:

Include OracleDatabase Kubernetes example
Signed-off-by: Mark Cram <mark.cram@oracle.com>

OracleDatabase/SingleInstance/samples/README.md, after:

Examples of how to extend the Oracle Database Docker Image
================================
# 1830-docker-compose
Provides a Docker Compose example file for Oracle Database 18c 18.3.0

# 12102-docker-compose
Provides a Docker Compose example file for Oracle Database 12.1.0.2

# 12201-docker-compose
Provides a Docker Compose example file for Oracle Database 12.2.0.1

# applypatch
Example of how to apply a custom patch or PSU to the image

# customdb
Example of how to create a database with user defined names.

# customscripts
Example of how to execute custom scripts on database setup/startup.

# kubernetes
Example of how to deploy the database using native Kubernetes objects.

# plugpdb
Example of how to plug an existing PDB into a CDB inside the container.

# prebuiltdb
Example of how to create a prebuilt database inside a container.

# startersetcontainer
Example of how to add starter set data to the database inside the container.
Useful for example to setup test environments.

# unplugpdb
Example of how to unplug a PDB from a container's CDB.

# Copyright
Copyright (c) 2014-2016 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
