OracleTuxedo/tuxedo_message_q/README.md, before:


##Dockerfile for Tuxedo Message Queue

Please note that the docker image is dependent on the image oracle/tuxedo:12.1.3. Please create the [Tuxedo docker image](../core) first. There are 2 installation type for Tuxedo Message Queue installer: 
1)Standalone installation - all Oracle Tuxedo Message Queue files, and minimal Tuxedo files.
2)Install on top of existing Oracle Tuxedo Installation (the default) - only Oracle Tuxedo Message Queue files.
In the dockerfiles/, it provides "Standalone installation", and in samples/, it provides the other one. 

## How to run
Before getting started, please download 
1. Tuxedo TMQ 12.1.3 Linux 64 bit GA installer from http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/middleware/tuxedo/downloads/index.html
   - OTMQ: otmq121300_64_Linux_x86.zip

If you use "Install on top of existing Oracle Tuxedo Installation", you must download Tuxedo RP:
2. Tuxedo 12.1.3 Linux 64 bit RPXX, XX should be 11 or bigger, for example
   - RP97: p25885822_121300_Linux-x86-64.zip

Execute:
buildDockerImage.sh -v 12.1.3


You can then start the image in a new container with:  
docker run -d -v ${LOCAL_DIR}:/u01/oracle/user_projects oracle/tuxedotmq:12.1.3

    Note: ${LOCAL_DIR} is a local dir which used in docker image as external storage, it can be any existing dir.

Commit message:

Updated dockerfiles according to the comments of PR495
1. Updated Dockerfiles, init.sh and README.md according to the comments.
2. Deleted the unnecessary templates.
3. For the comment, "This USER directive is not necessary as you're
already root", we tried to delete the changing user to root, but failed
to install softwares using yum install XXX, it says it's not root. The
reason might be that the USER has been changed to ORACLE in the base
image oracle/tuxedo:12.2.2. So we did not delete the directive.

OracleTuxedo/tuxedo_message_q/README.md, after:

Tuxedo Message Queue on Docker
===============

This project includes Dockerfiles for Tuxedo Message Queue 12.1.3 based on Oracle Tuxedo 12.1.3.
The certification of Tuxedo Message Queue on Docker does not require the use of any file presented in this repository. Customers and users are welcome to use them as starters, and customize/tweak, or create from scratch new scripts and Dockerfiles.

## Contents
This folder contains the information of how to use [Tuxedo Message Queue](http://docs.oracle.com/cd/E53645_01/otmq/docs12cr2/index.html) with [Docker](https://www.docker.com/).

How to build and run

Please note that the docker image is dependent on the image oracle/tuxedo:12.1.3. Please create the [Tuxedo docker image](../core) first. There are 2 installation type for Tuxedo Message Queue installer:
1)Standalone installation - all Oracle Tuxedo Message Queue files, and minimal Tuxedo files.
2)Install on top of existing Oracle Tuxedo Installation (the default) - only Oracle Tuxedo Message Queue files.
In the dockerfiles/, it provides "Standalone installation", and in samples/, it provides the other one.

## How to run
Before getting started, please download
1. Tuxedo TMQ 12.1.3 Linux 64 bit GA installer from http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/middleware/tuxedo/downloads/index.html
   - OTMQ: otmq121300_64_Linux_x86.zip

If you use "Install on top of existing Oracle Tuxedo Installation", you must download Tuxedo RP:
2. Tuxedo 12.1.3 Linux 64 bit RPXX, XX should be 11 or bigger, for example
   - RP97: p25885822_121300_Linux-x86-64.zip

Execute:
./buildDockerImage.sh -v 12.1.3

You can then start the image in a new container with:
docker run -d -v ${LOCAL_DIR}:/u01/oracle/user_projects oracle/tuxedotmq:12.1.3

    Note: ${LOCAL_DIR} is a local dir which used in docker image as external storage, it can be any existing dir.
