OracleWebLogic/dockerfiles/14.1.1.0/README.md, before:

Oracle WebLogic Server on Docker
=================================
These Docker configurations have been used to create the Oracle WebLogic Server (WLS) image. Providing this WLS image facilitates the configuration and environment setup for DevOps users. This project includes the installation and creation of an empty WebLogic Server domain (an Administration Server only). These Oracle WebLogic Server 14.1.1.0 images are based on Oracle Linux and Oracle Oracle JDK 11.

The certification of Oracle WebLogic Server on Docker does not require the use of any file presented in this repository. Customers and users are welcome to use them as starters, and customize, tweak, or create from scratch, new scripts and Dockerfiles.

For more information on the certification, please see the [Oracle WebLogic Server on Docker certification whitepaper](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/middleware/weblogic/overview/weblogic-server-docker-containers-2491959.pdf) and [The WebLogic Server Blog](https://blogs.oracle.com/WebLogicServer/) for updates.

## How to build and run
This project offers sample Dockerfiles for Oracle WebLogic Server 14c (14.1.1.0). It provides at least one Dockerfile for the `developer` distribution, a second Dockerfile for the `generic` distribution, and a third Dockerfile for the `slim` distribution.  

1- The WebLogic `generic` image is supported for `development` and `production` deployment of WebLogic configurations using Docker.   It contains the same binaries as those installed by the WebLogic generic installer.  The WebLogic generic image is primarily intended for WebLogic domains managed with the WebLogic Kubernetes Operator, when WLS console-based monitoring, and possibly configuration, is required.  All servers within a domain managed with the Operator will use the same WebLogic image.  Support is also provided for environments where Kubernetes and/or the WebLogic Kubernetes Operator is not being used.

2- The WebLogic `slim` image is supported for `development` and `production` deployment of WebLogic configurations using Docker.  In order to reduce image size, it contains a subset of the binaries included in the WebLogic generic image.   The WebLogic console, WebLogic examples, WebLogic clients, Maven plug-ins and Java DB have been removed - all binaries that remain included are the same as those in the WebLogic generic image.  The WebLogic slim image is primarily intended for WebLogic domains managed with the WebLogic Kubernetes Operator, when WLS console-based monitoring and configuration is not required, and a smaller image size than the generic image is preferred.  If there are requirements to monitor the WebLogic configuration, they should be addressed using Prometheus and Grafana or other alternatives. All servers within a domain managed with the Operator will use the same WebLogic image.  Support is also provided for environments where Kubernetes and/or the WebLogic Kubernetes Operator is not being used.

3- The WebLogic `developer` image is supported for `development` of  WebLogic applications in Docker containers.  In order to reduce image size, it contains a subset of the binaries included in the WebLogic generic image.   WebLogic examples and WLS Console help files have been removed - all binaries that remain included are the same as those in the WebLogic generic image.  The WebLogic developer image is primarily intended to provide a Docker image that is consistent with the WebLogic "quick installers" intended for `development` only.   Production WebLogic domains should use the WebLogic generic or WebLogic slim images.   


To assist in building the images, you can use the [`buildDockerImage.sh`](dockerfiles/buildDockerImage.sh) script. See below for instructions and usage.

The `buildDockerImage.sh` script is a utility shell script that performs MD5 checks and is an easy way for beginners to get started. Expert users are welcome to directly call `docker build` with their prefered set of parameters.

### Building Oracle WebLogic Server Docker install images
**IMPORTANT:** You must download the binary of Oracle WebLogic Server and put it in place (see `.download` files inside `dockerfiles/<version>`).  WebLogic Server 14.1.1.0 supports Java SE 11. If you want to run WebLogic Server on Oracle JDK 11 image, you must build the image by using the Dockerfile in [`../../../OracleJava/java11`](https://github.com/oracle/docker-images/tree/master/OracleJava/java-11). There is no longer a Oracle Server JRE for Java SE 11, it is bundled into Oracle JDK 11.

Before you build, select the version and distribution for which you want to build an image, then download the required packages (see `.download` files) and locate them in the folder of your distribution version of choice. Then, from the `dockerfiles` folder, run the `buildDockerImage.sh` script as root.

        $ sh buildDockerImage.sh
        Usage: buildDockerImage.sh -v [version] [-d | -g | -m] [-s] 
        Builds a Docker Image for Oracle WebLogic Server.

        Parameters:
           -v: version to build. Required.
           Choose : 14.1.1.0
           -d: creates image based on 'developer' distribution
           -g: creates image based on 'generic' distribution
           -m: creates image based on 'slim' distribution
           -c: enables Docker image layer cache during build
           -s: skips the MD5 check of packages

        * select one distribution only: -d, -g, or -m

        LICENSE UPL 1.0

        Copyright (c) 2014-2020 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.

**IMPORTANT:** The resulting images will have a single server domain (Administration Server only), by default.


  1. To build the `14.1.1.0`image, from `dockerfiles`, call:

        `$ sh buildDockerImage.sh -v 14.1.1.0 -d 

  2. Verify that you now have this image in place with:

        `$ docker images`
     
     If the WebLogic imagte is built extending Oracle JDK 11, then the built image will be called oracle/weblogic:14.1.1.0-developer
     

### Running a single server domain from the image
The WebLogic Server install image (built above) allows you to run a container with a single WebLogic Server domain.  This makes it extremely simple to deploy applications and any resource the application might need.

#### Providing the Administration Server user name and password
The user name and password must be supplied in a `domain.properties` file located in a HOST directory that you will map at Docker runtime with the `-v` option to the image directory `/u01/oracle/properties`. The properties file enables the scripts to configure the correct authentication for the WebLogic Server Administration Server.

The format of the `domain.properties` file is key=value pair:

	username=myadminusername
	password=myadminpassword

**Note**: Oracle recommends that the `domain.properties` file be deleted or secured after the container and the WebLogic Server are started so that the user name and password are not inadvertently exposed.

#### Start the container
Start a container from the image created in step 1.
You can override the default values of the following parameters during runtime with the `-e` option:

      * `ADMIN_NAME`                  (default: `AdminServer`)
      * `ADMIN_LISTEN_PORT`           (default: `7001`)
      * `DOMAIN_NAME`                 (default: `base_domain`)
      * `ADMINISTRATION_PORT_ENABLED` (default: `true`)
      * `ADMINISTRATION_PORT`         (default: `9002`)

**NOTE**: For security, the Administration port 9002 is enabled by default, before running the container in WebLogic 14.1.1.0. If you prefer to not enable the Administration port when you issue the `docker run` command, set `ADMINISTRTATION_PORT_ENABLED` to false. If you intend to run these images in production, then you must change the Production Mode to `production`. When you set the `DOMAIN_NAME`, the `DOMAIN_HOME=/u01/oracle/user_projects/domains/$DOMAIN_NAME`.

	$ docker run -d -p 7001:7001 -p 9002:9002  -v `HOST PATH where the domain.properties file is`:/u01/oracle/properties -e ADMINISTRATION_PORT_ENABLED=true -e DOMAIN_NAME=docker_domain oracle/weblogic:14.1.1.0-developer-11

Run the WLS Administration Console:

        $ docker inspect --format '{{.NetworkSettings.IPAddress}}' <container-name>

In your browser, enter `https://xxx.xx.x.x:9002/console`. Your browser will request that you accept the Security Exception. To avoid the Security Exception, you must update the WebLogic Server SSL configuration with a custom identity certificate.

## Copyright
Copyright (c) 2020 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.

Commit message:

Add that jdk image can be pulled from OCR and fix copyright

OracleWebLogic/dockerfiles/14.1.1.0/README.md, after:

Oracle WebLogic Server on Docker
=================================
These Docker configurations have been used to create the Oracle WebLogic Server (WLS) image. Providing this WLS image facilitates the configuration and environment setup for DevOps users. This project includes the installation and creation of an empty WebLogic Server domain (an Administration Server only). These Oracle WebLogic Server 14.1.1.0 images are based on Oracle Linux and Oracle Oracle JDK 11.

The certification of Oracle WebLogic Server on Docker does not require the use of any file presented in this repository. Customers and users are welcome to use them as starters, and customize, tweak, or create from scratch, new scripts and Dockerfiles.

For more information on the certification, please see the [Oracle WebLogic Server on Docker certification whitepaper](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/middleware/weblogic/overview/weblogic-server-docker-containers-2491959.pdf) and [The WebLogic Server Blog](https://blogs.oracle.com/WebLogicServer/) for updates.

## How to build and run
This project offers sample Dockerfiles for Oracle WebLogic Server 14c (14.1.1.0). It provides at least one Dockerfile for the `developer` distribution, a second Dockerfile for the `generic` distribution, and a third Dockerfile for the `slim` distribution.  

1- The WebLogic `generic` image is supported for `development` and `production` deployment of WebLogic configurations using Docker.   It contains the same binaries as those installed by the WebLogic generic installer.  The WebLogic generic image is primarily intended for WebLogic domains managed with the WebLogic Kubernetes Operator, when WLS console-based monitoring, and possibly configuration, is required.  All servers within a domain managed with the Operator will use the same WebLogic image.  Support is also provided for environments where Kubernetes and/or the WebLogic Kubernetes Operator is not being used.

2- The WebLogic `slim` image is supported for `development` and `production` deployment of WebLogic configurations using Docker.  In order to reduce image size, it contains a subset of the binaries included in the WebLogic generic image.   The WebLogic console, WebLogic examples, WebLogic clients, Maven plug-ins and Java DB have been removed - all binaries that remain included are the same as those in the WebLogic generic image.  The WebLogic slim image is primarily intended for WebLogic domains managed with the WebLogic Kubernetes Operator, when WLS console-based monitoring and configuration is not required, and a smaller image size than the generic image is preferred.  If there are requirements to monitor the WebLogic configuration, they should be addressed using Prometheus and Grafana or other alternatives. All servers within a domain managed with the Operator will use the same WebLogic image.  Support is also provided for environments where Kubernetes and/or the WebLogic Kubernetes Operator is not being used.

3- The WebLogic `developer` image is supported for `development` of  WebLogic applications in Docker containers.  In order to reduce image size, it contains a subset of the binaries included in the WebLogic generic image.   WebLogic examples and WLS Console help files have been removed - all binaries that remain included are the same as those in the WebLogic generic image.  The WebLogic developer image is primarily intended to provide a Docker image that is consistent with the WebLogic "quick installers" intended for `development` only.   Production WebLogic domains should use the WebLogic generic or WebLogic slim images.   


To assist in building the images, you can use the [`buildDockerImage.sh`](dockerfiles/buildDockerImage.sh) script. See below for instructions and usage.

The `buildDockerImage.sh` script is a utility shell script that performs MD5 checks and is an easy way for beginners to get started. Expert users are welcome to directly call `docker build` with their prefered set of parameters.

### Building Oracle WebLogic Server Docker install images
**IMPORTANT:** You must download the binary of Oracle WebLogic Server and put it in place (see `.download` files inside `dockerfiles/<version>`).  WebLogic Server 14.1.1.0 supports Java SE 11. If you want to run WebLogic Server on Oracle JDK 11 image, you can either build the image by using the Dockerfile in [`../../../OracleJava/java11`](https://github.com/oracle/docker-images/tree/master/OracleJava/java-11) or pull the jdk 11 image from the Oracle Container Registry. There is no longer a Oracle Server JRE for Java SE 11, it is bundled into Oracle JDK 11.  

Before you build, select the version and distribution for which you want to build an image, then download the required packages (see `.download` files) and locate them in the folder of your distribution version of choice. Then, from the `dockerfiles` folder, run the `buildDockerImage.sh` script as root.

        $ sh buildDockerImage.sh
        Usage: buildDockerImage.sh -v [version] [-d | -g | -m] [-s] 
        Builds a Docker Image for Oracle WebLogic Server.

        Parameters:
           -v: version to build. Required.
           Choose : 14.1.1.0
           -d: creates image based on 'developer' distribution
           -g: creates image based on 'generic' distribution
           -m: creates image based on 'slim' distribution
           -c: enables Docker image layer cache during build
           -s: skips the MD5 check of packages

        * select one distribution only: -d, -g, or -m

        LICENSE UPL 1.0

        Copyright (c) 2014-2020 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.

**IMPORTANT:** The resulting images will have a single server domain (Administration Server only), by default.


  1. To build the `14.1.1.0`image, from `dockerfiles`, call:

        `$ sh buildDockerImage.sh -v 14.1.1.0 -d 

  2. Verify that you now have this image in place with:

        `$ docker images`
     
     If the WebLogic imagte is built extending Oracle JDK 11, then the built image will be called oracle/weblogic:14.1.1.0-developer
     

### Running a single server domain from the image
The WebLogic Server install image (built above) allows you to run a container with a single WebLogic Server domain.  This makes it extremely simple to deploy applications and any resource the application might need.

#### Providing the Administration Server user name and password
The user name and password must be supplied in a `domain.properties` file located in a HOST directory that you will map at Docker runtime with the `-v` option to the image directory `/u01/oracle/properties`. The properties file enables the scripts to configure the correct authentication for the WebLogic Server Administration Server.

The format of the `domain.properties` file is key=value pair:

	username=myadminusername
	password=myadminpassword

**Note**: Oracle recommends that the `domain.properties` file be deleted or secured after the container and the WebLogic Server are started so that the user name and password are not inadvertently exposed.

#### Start the container
Start a container from the image created in step 1.
You can override the default values of the following parameters during runtime with the `-e` option:

      * `ADMIN_NAME`                  (default: `AdminServer`)
      * `ADMIN_LISTEN_PORT`           (default: `7001`)
      * `DOMAIN_NAME`                 (default: `base_domain`)
      * `ADMINISTRATION_PORT_ENABLED` (default: `true`)
      * `ADMINISTRATION_PORT`         (default: `9002`)

**NOTE**: For security, the Administration port 9002 is enabled by default, before running the container in WebLogic 14.1.1.0. If you prefer to not enable the Administration port when you issue the `docker run` command, set `ADMINISTRTATION_PORT_ENABLED` to false. If you intend to run these images in production, then you must change the Production Mode to `production`. When you set the `DOMAIN_NAME`, the `DOMAIN_HOME=/u01/oracle/user_projects/domains/$DOMAIN_NAME`.

	$ docker run -d -p 7001:7001 -p 9002:9002  -v `HOST PATH where the domain.properties file is`:/u01/oracle/properties -e ADMINISTRATION_PORT_ENABLED=true -e DOMAIN_NAME=docker_domain oracle/weblogic:14.1.1.0-developer-11

Run the WLS Administration Console:

        $ docker inspect --format '{{.NetworkSettings.IPAddress}}' <container-name>

In your browser, enter `https://xxx.xx.x.x:9002/console`. Your browser will request that you accept the Security Exception. To avoid the Security Exception, you must update the WebLogic Server SSL configuration with a custom identity certificate.

## Copyright
Copyright (c) 2020 Oracle and/or its affiliates.
