OracleWebCenterPortal/dockerfiles/12.2.1.4/README.md, before:

# Oracle WebCenter Portal 12.2.1.4 in a container

## Mount a host directory into container

The default location of the volume in the container is under `/var/lib/docker/volumes`. There is an option to mount a directory from the host into a container. In this project we will use that option.
To mount a host directory `/scratch/wcpdocker/volumes/wcpportal`(`DATA_MOUNT`) into container, execute the below command.

> The User ID can be anything but it must belong to `uid:guid` as `1000:1000`, which is same as the `oracle` user running in the container.

> This ensures `oracle` user has access to bind mounted filesystem.

```
$ sudo mkdir -p /scratch/wcpdocker/volumes/wcpportal
$ sudo chown 1000:1000 /scratch/wcpdocker/volumes/wcpportal
```
  All container operations are performed as the `oracle` user.
  
  **Note**: If a user already exist with `-u 1000` `-g 1000` then use the same user or create user to have `-u 1000` `-g 1000`

 
##  Preparing to run the Oracle WebCenter Portal container

Configure an environment before running the Oracle WebCenter Portal container.

### A. Creating a user-defined network
Create a user-defined network to enable containers to communicate by running the following command:

```
$ docker network create -d bridge WCPortalNET
```

### B. WebCenter Content Server (Optional)

If you want to integrate Oracle WebCenter Portal with Oracle WebCenter Content Server, you need to have a running Oracle WebCenter Content Server on any machine. But if you want to run  [Oracle WebCenter Content Server Container](../../../OracleWebCenterContent/dockerfiles/README.md) on the same machine as Oracle WebCenter Portal Container,
then it must be running in same network as Oracle WebCenter Portal Container (use above created `WCPortalNET` network)

##  Running the Oracle WebCenter Portal containers

Oracle WebCenter Portal requires the creation of at least two containers
* An Administration Server container.
* A single Managed server container.

**Note :** While Naming Containers avoid using underscore in Container Name to avoid encountering malformed URL exception.  
### 1. Creating containers for WebCenter Portal Server

### 1.1. Update the environment file 

Create an environment file `webcenter.env.list` file, to define the parameters.

Update the parameters inside `webcenter.env.list` as per your local setup.

```
# Database Configuration details
DB_DROP_AND_CREATE=<true or false>
DB_CONNECTION_STRING=<Hostname/ContainerName>:<Database Port>/<DB_PDB>.<DB_DOMAIN>
DB_RCUPREFIX=<RCU Prefix>
DB_PASSWORD=<Database Password>
DB_SCHEMA_PASSWORD=<Schema Password>

# Admin Server Configuration details
ADMIN_SERVER_CONTAINER_NAME=<Admin Server Container Name>
ADMIN_PORT=<Admin Server Port>
ADMIN_PASSWORD=<Admin Server Password>
ADMIN_USERNAME=<Admin Server User Name>
MANAGED_SERVER_PORT=<Managed Server Port>

# Portlet Server Configuration details
MANAGED_SERVER_PORTLET_PORT=<Portlet Server Port>

# Content Server Connection Configuration details
CONFIGURE_UCM_CONNECTION=<true or false>
# Valid option for connection type are socket,jaxws 
UCM_SOCKET_TYPE=<UCM Socket Type >
# Set to true if UCM is using SSL or else false
UCM_USING_SSL=<true or false>
UCM_HOST=<UCM Host>
UCM_PORT=<UCM Port>
UCM_ADMIN_USER=<UCM Admin User>
UCM_INTRADOC_SERVER_PORT=<required if socket>
UCM_CLIENT_SECURITY_POLICY=<required if jaxws>

# Elasticsearch Server Configuration details
SEARCH_APP_USERNAME=<Search User Name>
SEARCH_APP_USER_PASSWORD=<Search User Password>
```

### 1.2. Admin Container (WCPAdminContainer)
#### A. Creating and Running Admin Container

Run the following command to create the Admin Server container:

```
$ docker run -i -t --name <ADMIN_CONTAINER_NAME> --network=<NETWORK_NAME> -p <HostFreePort>:<ADMIN_PORT> -v <DATA_MOUNT>:/u01/oracle/user_projects --env-file <webcenter.env.list> oracle/wcportal:12.2.1.4
```

Sample Run Command

```
$ docker run -i -t --name WCPAdminContainer --network=WCPortalNET -p 7001:7001 -v /scratch/wcpdocker/volumes/wcpportal:/u01/oracle/user_projects --env-file /scratch/<userid>/docker/webcenter.env.list oracle/wcportal:12.2.1.4

```
Admin Container start up command explained:

| 		Parameter    	 |     Parameter Name             | 							     		Description			                               |
| :--------------------: | :----------------------------: | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:  |
| --name                 | ADMIN_CONTAINER_NAME                 |  Set to admin server container name                                                        |
| --network              | NETWORK_NAME                   | User-defined network to connect to; use the one created earlier `WCPortalNET`.             |
| -p                     | HostFreePort:ADMIN_PORT        | WebLogic admin server port; maps the container port to host's port.                      |
| -v                    | DATA_MOUNT                    | Mounts the host directory into container.                                                     |
| --env-file             | webcenter.env.list|  `webcenter.env.list` sets the environment variables.                                    |
| oracle/wcportal:12.2.1.4   | REPOSITORY:TAG           | The (optional) repo, name and tag of the image.                                              |


**Note:** Replace variables with values configured in `webcenter.env.list`
The above command deletes any previous RCU with the same prefix if `DB_DROP_AND_CREATE=true`

The docker run command creates the container as well as starts the Administration Server in sequence given below:

* Node Manager
* Administration Server

When the command is run for the first time, the domain is created and the Oracle WebCenter Portal Server is configured, so the following are done in sequence

* Loading WebCenter Portal schemas into the database
* Creating WebCenter Portal domain
* Configuring Node Manager
* Starting Node Manager
* Starting Admin Server

#### B. Stopping Admin Container
```
$ docker container stop <ADMIN_CONTAINER_NAME>
```

#### C. Starting Admin Container
```
$ docker container start -i <ADMIN_CONTAINER_NAME>
```
### 1.3. Portal Container (WCPortalContainer)

#### A. Creating and Running Portal Container
Run the following command to create the Portal Managed Server container:

```
$ docker run -i -t --name <WCP_CONTAINER_NAME> --network=<NETWORK_NAME> -p <HostFreePort>:<MANAGED_SERVER_PORT> -v <DATA_MOUNT>:/u01/oracle/user_projects --env-file webcenter.env.list oracle/wcportal:12.2.1.4 configureOrStartWebCenterPortal.sh

```

Sample Run Command
 
```
$ docker run -i -t --name WCPortalContainer --network=WCPortalNET -p 8888:8888 -v /scratch/wcpdocker/volumes/wcpportal:/u01/oracle/user_projects --env-file /scratch/<userid>/docker/webcenter.env.list oracle/wcportal:12.2.1.4 configureOrStartWebCenterPortal.sh

```
WebCenter Portal   Container start up command explained:

| 		Parameter    	   |     Parameter Name             | 							     		Description			                               |
| :----------------------: | :-----------------------------:| :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: |
| --name                   | WCP_CONTAINER_NAME                 |  Set to Oracle WebCenter Portal server container name                                                |
| --network                | NETWORK_NAME                   | User-defined network to connect to; use the one created earlier `WCPortalNET`.             |
| -p                       | HostFreePort:MANAGED_SERVER_PORT|  Set the mapped port on the host for the Managed server.              	   |
| -v                      | DATA_MOUNT                   | Mounts the host directory into container.      |
| --env-file               | webcenter.env.list  | `webcenter.env.list` sets the environment variables.                            |
|oracle/wcportal:12.2.1.4| REPOSITORY:TAG             | The (optional) repo, name and tag of the image.
  
**Note:** Replace variables with values configured in `webcenter.env.list`

The docker run command creates the container as well as starts the WebCenter Portal managed server. 

When the command is run for the first time and if `CONFIGURE_UCM_CONNECTION=true`, a default connection to Oracle WebCenter Content Server is created.
 
#### B. Stopping Portal Container
```
$ docker container stop <WCP_CONTAINER_NAME>
```

#### C. Starting Portal Container
```
$ docker container start -i <WCP_CONTAINER_NAME>
```

#### D. Getting Shell in Portal Container
```
$ docker exec -it <WCP_CONTAINER_NAME> /bin/bash
```
### 1.4. Portlet Container (WCPortletContainer)

#### A. Creating and Running Portlet Container
Run the following command to create the Portlet Managed Server container:

```
$ docker run -i -t --name <WCPORTLET_CONTAINER_NAME> --network=<NETWORK_NAME> -p <HostFreePort>:<MANAGED_SERVER_PORTLET_PORT> -v <DATA_VOLUME>:/u01/oracle/user_projects --env-file webcenter.env.list oracle/wcportal:12.2.1.4 configureOrStartWebCenterPortlet.sh

```
Sample Run Command 
```
$ docker run -i -t --name WCPortletContainer --network=WCPortalNET -p 7777:7777 -v /scratch/wcpdocker/volumes/wcpportal:/u01/oracle/user_projects --env-file /scratch/<userid>/docker/webcenter.env.list oracle/wcportal:12.2.1.4 configureOrStartWebCenterPortlet.sh

```
WebCenter Portlet Container start up command explained:

| 		Parameter    	   |     Parameter Name             | 							     		Description			                               |
| :----------------------: | :-----------------------------:| :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: |
| --name                   | WCPORTLET_CONTAINER_NAME                 |  Set to WebCenter Portlet server container name                                                |
| --network                | NETWORK_NAME                   | User-defined network to connect to; use the one created earlier ‘WCPortalNET’.             |
| -p                       | HostFreePort:MANAGED_SERVER_PORTLET_PORT|  Set Portlet Server port ,Maps the container port to host's port.              	   |
| -v                      | DATA_VOLUME                   | Mounts the host directory as a Volume.      |
| --env-file               | webcenter.env.list  | `webcenter.env.list` sets the environment variables.                            |
|oracle/wcportal:12.2.1.4| REPOSITORY:TAG             | Repository name:Tag name of the image created using buildDockerImage.sh 
  
**Note:** Replace variables with values configured in webcenter.env.list

The docker run command creates the container as well as starts the WebCenter Portlet managed server. 

 
#### B. Stopping Portlet Container
```
$ docker container stop <WCPORTLET_CONTAINER_NAME>
```

#### C. Starting Portlet Container
```
$ docker container start -i <WCPORTLET_CONTAINER_NAME>
```
### 1.5. Elasticsearch Container  (ESContainer)
To create an Elasticsearch container, we can reuse the environment file `webcenter.env.list` from the above example.

#### A. Data on a volume for Elasticsearch Container
We need to bind mount a host directory to store crawled data outside the Elasticsearch container.

To mount a host directory `/scratch/wcpdocker/volumes/es` (`ES_DATA_MOUNT`) into container, execute the below command.

```
$ sudo mkdir -p /scratch/wcpdocker/volumes/es
$ sudo chown 1000:1000 /scratch/wcpdocker/volumes/es
```

#### B. Creating and Running Elasticsearch Container

```
$ docker run -i -t --name <ES_CONTAINER_NAME> --network=<NETWORK_NAME> -p <HostFreePort>:9200 --volumes-from <WCP_CONTAINER_NAME> -v <ES_DATA_MOUNT>:/u01/esHome/esNode/data --env-file webcenter.env.list oracle/wcportal:12.2.1.4 configureOrStartElasticsearch.sh
```

Sample Run Command

```
$ docker run -i -t --name ESContainer --network=WCPortalNET -p 9200:9200 --volumes-from WCPortalContainer -v /scratch/wcpdocker/volumes/es:/u01/esHome/esNode/data --env-file /scratch/<userid>/docker/webcenter.env.list oracle/wcportal:12.2.1.4 configureOrStartElasticsearch.sh

```

Elasticsearch Container start up command explained:

| 		Parameter    	 |     Parameter Name      | 							     		Description			                               |
| :--------------------: | :---------------------: | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: |
| --name                 | ES_CONTAINER_NAME          |  Set to Elasticsearch container name                                                |
| --network              | NETWORK_NAME            | User-defined network to connect to; use the one created earlier `WCPortalNET`.             |
| -p                     | HostFreePort:9200| Elasticsearch default port 9200 as container port , Maps the container port to host's  port.              	   |
| --volumes-from         | WCP_CONTAINER_NAME  | Set the Oracle WebCenter Portal container name               	   |
| -v                    | ES_DATA_MOUNT| Mounts the host directory into container.      |
| --env-file             | webcenter.env.list | `webcenter.env.list`  sets the environment variables.                            |
| oracle/wcportal:12.2.1.4      | REPOSITORY:TAG      | The (optional) repo, name and tag of the image.   |
  
#### C. Stopping Elasticsearch Container
```
$ docker container stop <ES_CONTAINER_NAME>
```

#### D. Starting Elasticsearch Container
```
$ docker container start -i <ES_CONTAINER_NAME>
```

#  FAQs


##### 1. How do I reuse existing domain?
To reuse a existing domain we need to comply with existing domain configuration given in `webcenter.env.list` and container names.

Follow below instruction to recreate a container in such a way that they continue using existing domain on data volume.

*Delete existing container (ESContainer, WCPortletContainer, WCPortalContainer and WCPAdminContainer)*
 
```
$ docker container stop ESContainer
$ docker container stop WCPortletContainer
$ docker container stop WCPortalContainer
$ docker container stop WCPAdminContainer

$ docker container rm ESContainer
$ docker container rm WCPortletContainer
$ docker container rm WCPortalContainer
$ docker container rm WCPAdminContainer

```

*Reuse the WebCenter Portal database schema*

Update the following parameter inside `webcenter.env.list` :

```
DB_DROP_AND_CREATE=false

```

*Create container pointing to existing domain*
*Run the command to create Container in given Sequence (run as non root user)*
```
# create Admin Container
$ docker run -i -t --name WCPAdminContainer --network=WCPortalNET -p 7001:7001 -v /scratch/wcpdocker/volumes/wcpportal:/u01/oracle/user_projects --env-file /scratch/<userid>/docker/webcenter.env.list oracle/wcportal:12.2.1.4

# create Portal Container
$ docker run -i -t --name WCPortalContainer --network=WCPortalNET -p 8888:8888 -v /scratch/wcpdocker/volumes/wcpportal:/u01/oracle/user_projects --env-file /scratch/<userid>/docker/webcenter.env.list oracle/wcportal:12.2.1.4 configureOrStartWebCenterPortal.sh

#create Portlet Container
$ docker run -i -t --name WCPortletContainer --network=WCPortalNET -p 7777:7777 -v /scratch/wcpdocker/volumes/wcpportal:/u01/oracle/user_projects --env-file /scratch/<userid>/docker/webcenter.env.list oracle/wcportal:12.2.1.4 configureOrStartWebCenterPortlet.sh

# create Elasticsearch Container
$ docker run -i -t --name ESContainer --network=WCPortalNET -p 9200:9200 --volumes-from WCPortalContainer -v /scratch/wcpdocker/volumes/es:/u01/esHome/esNode/data --env-file /scratch/<userid>/docker/webcenter.env.list oracle/wcportal:12.2.1.4 configureOrStartElasticsearch.sh

```
 


##### 2 How do I create containers with new domain?
In case of any error or want a new fresh instance then you need to follow given instruction  in sequence:

*Delete existing container (WCPAdminContainer, WCPortletContainer, WCPortalContainer and ESContainer)*


*Delete data from shared bind mounts*

```
# below command should be run as root user
$ rm -rf  ES_DATA_MOUNT/*
$ rm -rf DATA_MOUNT/*

```

 
```
$ docker container stop ESContainer
$ docker container stop WCPortletContainer
$ docker container stop WCPortalContainer
$ docker container stop WCPAdminContainer

$ docker container rm ESContainer
$ docker container rm WCPortletContainer
$ docker container rm WCPortalContainer
$ docker container rm WCPAdminContainer


```
*Drop and recreate the WebCenter Portal database schema*

Update the following parameter inside `webcenter.env.list` :

```
DB_DROP_AND_CREATE=true

```

*Create containers*

*Run the command to create Container in given Sequence (run as non root user)*

```
# create Admin Container
$ docker run -i -t --name WCPAdminContainer --network=WCPortalNET -p 7001:7001 -v /scratch/wcpdocker/volumes/wcpportal:/u01/oracle/user_projects --env-file /scratch/<userid>/docker/webcenter.env.list oracle/wcportal:12.2.1.4

# create Portal Container
$ docker run -i -t --name WCPortalContainer --network=WCPortalNET -p 8888:8888 -v /scratch/wcpdocker/volumes/wcpportal:/u01/oracle/user_projects --env-file /scratch/<userid>/docker/webcenter.env.list oracle/wcportal:12.2.1.4 configureOrStartWebCenterPortal.sh 

#create Portlet Container
$ docker run -i -t --name WCPortletContainer --network=WCPortalNET -p 7777:7777 -v /scratch/wcpdocker/volumes/wcpportal:/u01/oracle/user_projects --env-file /scratch/<userid>/docker/webcenter.env.list oracle/wcportal:12.2.1.4 configureOrStartWebCenterPortlet.sh
 
# create Elasticsearch Container
$ docker run -i -t --name ESContainer --network=WCPortalNET -p 9200:9200 --volumes-from WCPortalContainer -v /scratch/wcpdocker/volumes/es:/u01/esHome/esNode/data --env-file /scratch/<userid>/docker/webcenter.env.list oracle/wcportal:12.2.1.4 configureOrStartElasticsearch.sh

```

# Copyright
 Copyright (c) 2020, 2021, Oracle and/or its affiliates.

Commit message:

WCP-32741:- Update build scripts to support Elasticsearch (#2440)

OracleWebCenterPortal/dockerfiles/12.2.1.4/README.md, after:

# Oracle WebCenter Portal 12.2.1.4 in a container

## Mount a host directory into container

The default location of the volume in the container is under `/var/lib/docker/volumes`. There is an option to mount a directory from the host into a container. In this project we will use that option.
To mount a host directory `/scratch/wcpdocker/volumes/wcpportal`(`DATA_MOUNT`) into container, execute the below command.

> The User ID can be anything but it must belong to `uid:guid` as `1000:1000`, which is same as the `oracle` user running in the container.

> This ensures `oracle` user has access to bind mounted filesystem.

```
$ sudo mkdir -p /scratch/wcpdocker/volumes/wcpportal
$ sudo chown 1000:1000 /scratch/wcpdocker/volumes/wcpportal
```
  All container operations are performed as the `oracle` user.
  
  **Note**: If a user already exist with `-u 1000` `-g 1000` then use the same user or create user to have `-u 1000` `-g 1000`

 
##  Preparing to run the Oracle WebCenter Portal container

Configure an environment before running the Oracle WebCenter Portal container.

### A. Creating a user-defined network
Create a user-defined network to enable containers to communicate by running the following command:

```
$ docker network create -d bridge WCPortalNET
```

### B. WebCenter Content Server (Optional)

If you want to integrate Oracle WebCenter Portal with Oracle WebCenter Content Server, you need to have a running Oracle WebCenter Content Server on any machine. But if you want to run  [Oracle WebCenter Content Server Container](../../../OracleWebCenterContent/dockerfiles/README.md) on the same machine as Oracle WebCenter Portal Container,
then it must be running in same network as Oracle WebCenter Portal Container (use above created `WCPortalNET` network)

##  Running the Oracle WebCenter Portal containers

Oracle WebCenter Portal requires the creation of at least two containers
* An Administration Server container.
* A single Managed server container.

**Note :** While Naming Containers avoid using underscore in Container Name to avoid encountering malformed URL exception.  
### 1. Creating containers for WebCenter Portal Server

### 1.1. Update the environment file 

Create an environment file `webcenter.env.list` file, to define the parameters.

Update the parameters inside `webcenter.env.list` as per your local setup.

```
# Database Configuration details
DB_DROP_AND_CREATE=<true or false>
DB_CONNECTION_STRING=<Hostname/ContainerName>:<Database Port>/<DB_PDB>.<DB_DOMAIN>
DB_RCUPREFIX=<RCU Prefix>
DB_PASSWORD=<Database Password>
DB_SCHEMA_PASSWORD=<Schema Password>

# Admin Server Configuration details
ADMIN_SERVER_CONTAINER_NAME=<Admin Server Container Name>
ADMIN_PORT=<Admin Server Port>
ADMIN_PASSWORD=<Admin Server Password>
ADMIN_USERNAME=<Admin Server User Name>
MANAGED_SERVER_PORT=<Managed Server Port>

# Portlet Server Configuration details
MANAGED_SERVER_PORTLET_PORT=<Portlet Server Port>

# Content Server Connection Configuration details
CONFIGURE_UCM_CONNECTION=<true or false>
# Valid option for connection type are socket,jaxws 
UCM_SOCKET_TYPE=<UCM Socket Type >
# Set to true if UCM is using SSL or else false
UCM_USING_SSL=<true or false>
UCM_HOST=<UCM Host>
UCM_PORT=<UCM Port>
UCM_ADMIN_USER=<UCM Admin User>
UCM_INTRADOC_SERVER_PORT=<required if socket>
UCM_CLIENT_SECURITY_POLICY=<required if jaxws>

# Elasticsearch Server Configuration details
SEARCH_APP_USERNAME=<Search User Name>
SEARCH_APP_USER_PASSWORD=<Search User Password>
ELASTIC_SEARCH_INSTALLER_FILE_NAME=<Elasticsearch Installer File Name>
ELASTIC_SEARCH_VERSION=<Elasticsearch Version>

```

### 1.2. Admin Container (WCPAdminContainer)
#### A. Creating and Running Admin Container

Run the following command to create the Admin Server container:

```
$ docker run -i -t --name <ADMIN_CONTAINER_NAME> --network=<NETWORK_NAME> -p <HostFreePort>:<ADMIN_PORT> -v <DATA_MOUNT>:/u01/oracle/user_projects --env-file <webcenter.env.list> oracle/wcportal:12.2.1.4
```

Sample Run Command

```
$ docker run -i -t --name WCPAdminContainer --network=WCPortalNET -p 7001:7001 -v /scratch/wcpdocker/volumes/wcpportal:/u01/oracle/user_projects --env-file /scratch/<userid>/docker/webcenter.env.list oracle/wcportal:12.2.1.4

```
Admin Container start up command explained:

| 		Parameter    	 |     Parameter Name             | 							     		Description			                               |
| :--------------------: | :----------------------------: | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:  |
| --name                 | ADMIN_CONTAINER_NAME                 |  Set to admin server container name                                                        |
| --network              | NETWORK_NAME                   | User-defined network to connect to; use the one created earlier `WCPortalNET`.             |
| -p                     | HostFreePort:ADMIN_PORT        | WebLogic admin server port; maps the container port to host's port.                      |
| -v                    | DATA_MOUNT                    | Mounts the host directory into container.                                                     |
| --env-file             | webcenter.env.list|  `webcenter.env.list` sets the environment variables.                                    |
| oracle/wcportal:12.2.1.4   | REPOSITORY:TAG           | The (optional) repo, name and tag of the image.                                              |


**Note:** Replace variables with values configured in `webcenter.env.list`
The above command deletes any previous RCU with the same prefix if `DB_DROP_AND_CREATE=true`

The docker run command creates the container as well as starts the Administration Server in sequence given below:

* Node Manager
* Administration Server

When the command is run for the first time, the domain is created and the Oracle WebCenter Portal Server is configured, so the following are done in sequence

* Loading WebCenter Portal schemas into the database
* Creating WebCenter Portal domain
* Configuring Node Manager
* Starting Node Manager
* Starting Admin Server

#### B. Stopping Admin Container
```
$ docker container stop <ADMIN_CONTAINER_NAME>
```

#### C. Starting Admin Container
```
$ docker container start -i <ADMIN_CONTAINER_NAME>
```
### 1.3. Portal Container (WCPortalContainer)

#### A. Creating and Running Portal Container
Run the following command to create the Portal Managed Server container:

```
$ docker run -i -t --name <WCP_CONTAINER_NAME> --network=<NETWORK_NAME> -p <HostFreePort>:<MANAGED_SERVER_PORT> -v <DATA_MOUNT>:/u01/oracle/user_projects --env-file webcenter.env.list oracle/wcportal:12.2.1.4 configureOrStartWebCenterPortal.sh

```

Sample Run Command
 
```
$ docker run -i -t --name WCPortalContainer --network=WCPortalNET -p 8888:8888 -v /scratch/wcpdocker/volumes/wcpportal:/u01/oracle/user_projects --env-file /scratch/<userid>/docker/webcenter.env.list oracle/wcportal:12.2.1.4 configureOrStartWebCenterPortal.sh

```
WebCenter Portal   Container start up command explained:

| 		Parameter    	   |     Parameter Name             | 							     		Description			                               |
| :----------------------: | :-----------------------------:| :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: |
| --name                   | WCP_CONTAINER_NAME                 |  Set to Oracle WebCenter Portal server container name                                                |
| --network                | NETWORK_NAME                   | User-defined network to connect to; use the one created earlier `WCPortalNET`.             |
| -p                       | HostFreePort:MANAGED_SERVER_PORT|  Set the mapped port on the host for the Managed server.              	   |
| -v                      | DATA_MOUNT                   | Mounts the host directory into container.      |
| --env-file               | webcenter.env.list  | `webcenter.env.list` sets the environment variables.                            |
|oracle/wcportal:12.2.1.4| REPOSITORY:TAG             | The (optional) repo, name and tag of the image.
  
**Note:** Replace variables with values configured in `webcenter.env.list`

The docker run command creates the container as well as starts the WebCenter Portal managed server. 

When the command is run for the first time and if `CONFIGURE_UCM_CONNECTION=true`, a default connection to Oracle WebCenter Content Server is created.
 
#### B. Stopping Portal Container
```
$ docker container stop <WCP_CONTAINER_NAME>
```

#### C. Starting Portal Container
```
$ docker container start -i <WCP_CONTAINER_NAME>
```

#### D. Getting Shell in Portal Container
```
$ docker exec -it <WCP_CONTAINER_NAME> /bin/bash
```
### 1.4. Portlet Container (WCPortletContainer)

#### A. Creating and Running Portlet Container
Run the following command to create the Portlet Managed Server container:

```
$ docker run -i -t --name <WCPORTLET_CONTAINER_NAME> --network=<NETWORK_NAME> -p <HostFreePort>:<MANAGED_SERVER_PORTLET_PORT> -v <DATA_VOLUME>:/u01/oracle/user_projects --env-file webcenter.env.list oracle/wcportal:12.2.1.4 configureOrStartWebCenterPortlet.sh

```
Sample Run Command 
```
$ docker run -i -t --name WCPortletContainer --network=WCPortalNET -p 7777:7777 -v /scratch/wcpdocker/volumes/wcpportal:/u01/oracle/user_projects --env-file /scratch/<userid>/docker/webcenter.env.list oracle/wcportal:12.2.1.4 configureOrStartWebCenterPortlet.sh

```
WebCenter Portlet Container start up command explained:

| 		Parameter    	   |     Parameter Name             | 							     		Description			                               |
| :----------------------: | :-----------------------------:| :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: |
| --name                   | WCPORTLET_CONTAINER_NAME                 |  Set to WebCenter Portlet server container name                                                |
| --network                | NETWORK_NAME                   | User-defined network to connect to; use the one created earlier ‘WCPortalNET’.             |
| -p                       | HostFreePort:MANAGED_SERVER_PORTLET_PORT|  Set Portlet Server port ,Maps the container port to host's port.              	   |
| -v                      | DATA_VOLUME                   | Mounts the host directory as a Volume.      |
| --env-file               | webcenter.env.list  | `webcenter.env.list` sets the environment variables.                            |
|oracle/wcportal:12.2.1.4| REPOSITORY:TAG             | Repository name:Tag name of the image created using buildDockerImage.sh 
  
**Note:** Replace variables with values configured in webcenter.env.list

The docker run command creates the container as well as starts the WebCenter Portlet managed server. 

 
#### B. Stopping Portlet Container
```
$ docker container stop <WCPORTLET_CONTAINER_NAME>
```

#### C. Starting Portlet Container
```
$ docker container start -i <WCPORTLET_CONTAINER_NAME>
```
### 1.5. Elasticsearch Container  (ESContainer)
To create an Elasticsearch container, we can reuse the environment file `webcenter.env.list` from the above example.

#### A. Data on a volume for Elasticsearch Container
We need to bind mount a host directory to store crawled data outside the Elasticsearch container.

To mount a host directory `/scratch/wcpdocker/volumes/es` (`ES_DATA_MOUNT`) into container, execute the below command.

```
$ sudo mkdir -p /scratch/wcpdocker/volumes/es
$ sudo chown 1000:1000 /scratch/wcpdocker/volumes/es
```

#### B. Creating and Running Elasticsearch Container

>Note: Starting with the April 2022 PSU release for Oracle WebCenter Portal, you are able to optionally add Elasticsearch registered to the WebCenter Portal container image. Before creating this image, you must first manually download the [Elasticsearch 7.17.x binaries](https://www.elastic.co/downloads/past-releases#elasticsearch) directly from Elasticsearch.

Update the `ELASTIC_SEARCH_INSTALLER_FILE_NAME` variable with the correct filename and set the `ELASTIC_SEARCH_VERSION` variable to the version of Elasticsearch you downloaded.

Copy the downloaded `elasticsearch-7.17.x-linux-x86_64.tar.gz` file to the location on the host used as the source for the `DATA_MOUNT` bind mount: 

```
$  cp elasticsearch-7.17.x-linux-x86_64.tar.gz /scratch/wcpdocker/volumes/wcpportal
```

Run the following command to create the Elasticsearch container:

```
$ docker run -i -t --name <ES_CONTAINER_NAME> --network=<NETWORK_NAME> -p <HostFreePort>:9200 --volumes-from <WCP_CONTAINER_NAME> -v <ES_DATA_MOUNT>:/u01/esHome/esNode/data --env-file webcenter.env.list oracle/wcportal:12.2.1.4 configureOrStartElasticsearch.sh
```

Sample Run Command

```
$ docker run -i -t --name ESContainer --network=WCPortalNET -p 9200:9200 --volumes-from WCPortalContainer -v /scratch/wcpdocker/volumes/es:/u01/esHome/esNode/data --env-file /scratch/<userid>/docker/webcenter.env.list oracle/wcportal:12.2.1.4 configureOrStartElasticsearch.sh

```

Elasticsearch Container start up command explained:

| 		Parameter    	 |     Parameter Name      | 							     		Description			                               |
| :--------------------: | :---------------------: | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: |
| --name                 | ES_CONTAINER_NAME          |  Set to Elasticsearch container name                                                |
| --network              | NETWORK_NAME            | User-defined network to connect to; use the one created earlier `WCPortalNET`.             |
| -p                     | HostFreePort:9200| Elasticsearch default port 9200 as container port , Maps the container port to host's  port.              	   |
| --volumes-from         | WCP_CONTAINER_NAME  | Set the Oracle WebCenter Portal container name               	   |
| -v                    | ES_DATA_MOUNT| Mounts the host directory into container.      |
| --env-file             | webcenter.env.list | `webcenter.env.list`  sets the environment variables.                            |
| oracle/wcportal:12.2.1.4      | REPOSITORY:TAG      | The (optional) repo, name and tag of the image.   |
  
#### C. Stopping Elasticsearch Container
```
$ docker container stop <ES_CONTAINER_NAME>
```

#### D. Starting Elasticsearch Container
```
$ docker container start -i <ES_CONTAINER_NAME>
```

#  FAQs


##### 1. How do I reuse existing domain?
To reuse a existing domain we need to comply with existing domain configuration given in `webcenter.env.list` and container names.

Follow below instruction to recreate a container in such a way that they continue using existing domain on data volume.

*Delete existing container (ESContainer, WCPortletContainer, WCPortalContainer and WCPAdminContainer)*
 
```
$ docker container stop ESContainer
$ docker container stop WCPortletContainer
$ docker container stop WCPortalContainer
$ docker container stop WCPAdminContainer

$ docker container rm ESContainer
$ docker container rm WCPortletContainer
$ docker container rm WCPortalContainer
$ docker container rm WCPAdminContainer

```

*Reuse the WebCenter Portal database schema*

Update the following parameter inside `webcenter.env.list` :

```
DB_DROP_AND_CREATE=false

```

*Create container pointing to existing domain*
*Run the command to create Container in given Sequence (run as non root user)*
```
# create Admin Container
$ docker run -i -t --name WCPAdminContainer --network=WCPortalNET -p 7001:7001 -v /scratch/wcpdocker/volumes/wcpportal:/u01/oracle/user_projects --env-file /scratch/<userid>/docker/webcenter.env.list oracle/wcportal:12.2.1.4

# create Portal Container
$ docker run -i -t --name WCPortalContainer --network=WCPortalNET -p 8888:8888 -v /scratch/wcpdocker/volumes/wcpportal:/u01/oracle/user_projects --env-file /scratch/<userid>/docker/webcenter.env.list oracle/wcportal:12.2.1.4 configureOrStartWebCenterPortal.sh

#create Portlet Container
$ docker run -i -t --name WCPortletContainer --network=WCPortalNET -p 7777:7777 -v /scratch/wcpdocker/volumes/wcpportal:/u01/oracle/user_projects --env-file /scratch/<userid>/docker/webcenter.env.list oracle/wcportal:12.2.1.4 configureOrStartWebCenterPortlet.sh

# create Elasticsearch Container
$ docker run -i -t --name ESContainer --network=WCPortalNET -p 9200:9200 --volumes-from WCPortalContainer -v /scratch/wcpdocker/volumes/es:/u01/esHome/esNode/data --env-file /scratch/<userid>/docker/webcenter.env.list oracle/wcportal:12.2.1.4 configureOrStartElasticsearch.sh

```
 


##### 2 How do I create containers with new domain?
In case of any error or want a new fresh instance then you need to follow given instruction  in sequence:

*Delete existing container (WCPAdminContainer, WCPortletContainer, WCPortalContainer and ESContainer)*


*Delete data from shared bind mounts*

```
# below command should be run as root user
$ rm -rf  ES_DATA_MOUNT/*
$ rm -rf DATA_MOUNT/*

```

 
```
$ docker container stop ESContainer
$ docker container stop WCPortletContainer
$ docker container stop WCPortalContainer
$ docker container stop WCPAdminContainer

$ docker container rm ESContainer
$ docker container rm WCPortletContainer
$ docker container rm WCPortalContainer
$ docker container rm WCPAdminContainer


```
*Drop and recreate the WebCenter Portal database schema*

Update the following parameter inside `webcenter.env.list` :

```
DB_DROP_AND_CREATE=true

```

*Create containers*

*Run the command to create Container in given Sequence (run as non root user)*

```
# create Admin Container
$ docker run -i -t --name WCPAdminContainer --network=WCPortalNET -p 7001:7001 -v /scratch/wcpdocker/volumes/wcpportal:/u01/oracle/user_projects --env-file /scratch/<userid>/docker/webcenter.env.list oracle/wcportal:12.2.1.4

# create Portal Container
$ docker run -i -t --name WCPortalContainer --network=WCPortalNET -p 8888:8888 -v /scratch/wcpdocker/volumes/wcpportal:/u01/oracle/user_projects --env-file /scratch/<userid>/docker/webcenter.env.list oracle/wcportal:12.2.1.4 configureOrStartWebCenterPortal.sh 

#create Portlet Container
$ docker run -i -t --name WCPortletContainer --network=WCPortalNET -p 7777:7777 -v /scratch/wcpdocker/volumes/wcpportal:/u01/oracle/user_projects --env-file /scratch/<userid>/docker/webcenter.env.list oracle/wcportal:12.2.1.4 configureOrStartWebCenterPortlet.sh
 
# create Elasticsearch Container
$ docker run -i -t --name ESContainer --network=WCPortalNET -p 9200:9200 --volumes-from WCPortalContainer -v /scratch/wcpdocker/volumes/es:/u01/esHome/esNode/data --env-file /scratch/<userid>/docker/webcenter.env.list oracle/wcportal:12.2.1.4 configureOrStartElasticsearch.sh

```

# Copyright
 Copyright (c) 2020, 2022, Oracle and/or its affiliates.
 
 Elasticsearch is a registered trademark of Elasticsearch BV.
