OracleTuxedo/art_runtime/README.md, before:

# Introduction
This folder contains the information and examples of how to use [Tuxedo ART Runtime](http://docs.oracle.com/cd/E72452_01/artrt/docs1222/index.html) with [Docker](https://www.docker.com/).

## Contents
It is based on the Oracle Tuxedo image.

##Prerequisite
1. Use btrfs with docker:
   With big image size, it's better to use btrfs with docker, please follow the link below to set Docker using btrfs.
   https://docs.docker.com/engine/userguide/storagedriver/btrfs-driver/#configure-btrfs-on-sles


## To use
Pre-installation:
1. Download the binaries and copy them to `pwd`/bin
   1. Download all the files from this GitHub repository
   2. Download the binary of ART Runtime
   3. Download Oracle instance client rpm from http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/topics/linuxx86-64soft-092277.html
      oracle-instantclient12.2-basic-12.2.0.1.0-1.x86_64.rpm
      oracle-instantclient12.2-sqlplus-12.2.0.1.0-1.x86_64.rpm
      oracle-instantclient12.2-devel-12.2.0.1.0-1.x86_64.rpm
      oracle-instantclient12.2-precomp-12.2.0.1.0-1.x86_64.rpm
   4. Download Cobol-IT installer
      For Cobol-IT license, after container started, copy the licnese file to /opt/cobol-it-64.
   5. Optionally download Tuxedo and Tuxedo ART Runtime patches
   
Installation:
Before you run buildDockerImage.sh, if proxy is needed to access network, you need to set environment variables at first: http_proxy, https_proxy, ftp_proxy, no_proxy
     ./buildDockerImage.sh -v 12.2.2   
Note, before you run buildDockerImage.sh, if your Tuxedo ART was other than 12.2.2, you need change above command according to version.

You should end up with a docker image tagged oracle/tuxedoartrt:<version>, version is Tuxedo ART version number you may modify in buildDockerImage.sh.

Commit message:

Updated dockerfiles according to the comments of PR495
1. Updated Dockerfiles, init.sh and README.md according to the comments.
2. Deleted the unnecessary templates.
3. For the comment, "This USER directive is not necessary as you're
already root", we tried to delete the changing user to root, but failed
to install softwares using yum install XXX, it says it's not root. The
reason might be that the USER has been changed to ORACLE in the base
image oracle/tuxedo:12.2.2. So we did not delete the directive.

OracleTuxedo/art_runtime/README.md, after:

Tuxedo Application Runtime on Docker
===============
This folder contains the information of how to use [Tuxedo ART Runtime](http://docs.oracle.com/cd/E72452_01/artrt/docs1222/index.html) with [Docker](https://www.docker.com/). Customers and users are welcome to use them as starters, and customize/tweak, or create from scratch new scripts and Dockerfiles.

## Contents
This folder contains dockerfile based on the Oracle Tuxedo image, in which it has installation of Tuxedo Application Runtime installation, Cobol-IT, and Oracle instance client. 

##Prerequisite
1. Use btrfs with docker:
   With big image size, it is better to use btrfs with docker, please follow the link below to set Docker using btrfs.
   https://docs.docker.com/engine/userguide/storagedriver/btrfs-driver/#configure-btrfs-on-sles

How to build and run
Pre-installation:
1. Download the binaries and copy them to `pwd`/bin
   1. Download all the files from this GitHub repository
   2. Download the binary of ART Runtime
   3. Download Oracle instance client rpm from http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/topics/linuxx86-64soft-092277.html
      oracle-instantclient12.2-basic-12.2.0.1.0-1.x86_64.rpm
      oracle-instantclient12.2-sqlplus-12.2.0.1.0-1.x86_64.rpm
      oracle-instantclient12.2-devel-12.2.0.1.0-1.x86_64.rpm
      oracle-instantclient12.2-precomp-12.2.0.1.0-1.x86_64.rpm
   4. Download Cobol-IT installer
      For Cobol-IT license, after container started, copy the licnese file to /opt/cobol-it-64.
   5. Optionally download Tuxedo and Tuxedo ART Runtime patches

## To use
Before you run buildDockerImage.sh, if proxy is needed to access network, you need to set environment variables at first: http_proxy, https_proxy, ftp_proxy, no_proxy
     ./buildDockerImage.sh -v 12.2.2
Note, before you run buildDockerImage.sh, if your Tuxedo ART was other than 12.2.2, you need change above command according to version.

You should end up with a docker image tagged oracle/tuxedoartrt:<version>, version is Tuxedo ART version number you may modify in buildDockerImage.sh.
